Jeff Stoike
Co-Founder, Blue Action Lab
Jeffrey has a PhD in International Sustainable Development from the Yale School of the Environment, where he conducted his doctoral
research on coastal communities and marine environments in Brazil and Panama. This research has informed his subsequent
policy-making and institution-building for non-profit organizations and federal agencies, as well as in the private sector. He has over
two decades of experience in international development as a researcher, entrepreneur and consultant. He developed the place-based
impact investing and climate philanthropy projects at the Urban Institute in Washington DC and worked on corporate diplomacy in
Silicon Valley while at the U.S. State Department. He is Co-Founder of Blue Action Lab and Blue Action Ventures which, through a joint
venture with Founders Factory, has launched the Blue Action Accelerator.

Lisa Hubert
Investment Director, Mirova
Lisa is an investment director for the Sustainable Ocean Fund, managed by Mirova. She has been working for Mirova since 2016, where
she has sourced, structured and managed multiple transactions in the sustainable agriculture, forestry & ocean space. She had also an
active role in business development with the design and structuring of new impact funds dedicated to investing into natural capital
assets in emerging and developed countries. Since 2020, she has been fully dedicated to the Sustainable Ocean Fund where she has led
and closed 6 transactions out of the 14 portfolio company, mainly in Latam and SE Asia. Lisa has 4 board positions with investees. Before
joining Mirova, Lisa worked for the FAO, IFAD and the World Bank as an economist and portfolio manager, focusing on climate-smart
agriculture, sustainable forestry, inclusive finance & infrastructure in Africa, MENA and Central Asia. She was actively involved at
operational level where she gained significant field and execution experience while leading research work on gender, climate
adaptation, behavioral economics and RCT studies. She navigated complex situations, engaging with different stakeholders including
farmers, industries, financiers, policy makers, researchers and the civil society. She also worked in Colombia and linking large public
conditional transfer programmes to financial inclusion and entrepreneurship. Lisa graduated from Science Po in Risk and Quality
Management (MBA) and holds an MSc in Agricultural Development and Economic Policies from Panthéon-Sorbonne University. She is
fluent in French, English and Spanish. She lived in Mexico, Colombia and Italia.

Ben Lesage
Global Coordinator, Sustainable Ocean Alliance
Benjamin Lesage is passionate about the ocean and is an expert in technology and innovation. He has been an active startups’ mentor
at SOA since 2018 and is now in charge of partnerships and coordinating SOA activities in Europe, where he is based. Prior to joining
SOA full-time, Ben worked for the innovation studio of BNP Paribas in Silicon Valley. In this tenure, he would provide advisory services
to the Bank and large European corporations on their open innovation and startups engagement strategy. He is the author of the first
study dedicated to Ocean Technology startups, and was invited to share his work in various media and events such as Hello Tomorrow
and La Mer XXL. Benjamin lived for more than 10 years in Canada and in the US and is knowledgeable about both North American and
European business ecosystems. Benjamin enjoys spending his free time sailing and surfing

Alexis Grosskopf
1000 Ocean Startups Steering Committee, Ocean Hub Africa CEO
Alexis is the Founder and CEO of OceanHub Africa (OHA), an ocean-impact accelerator focusing on strengthening the development and
adoption of new sustainable ocean solutions in Africa. He holds a BEng in Mechanical Engineering from King's College and an MSc in
Environmental Engineering from Imperial College London. Former management and sustainable development consultant, he
subsequently led R&D and intrapreneurship innovation e¬orts for a blue-chip construction company in Europe before moving to South
Africa in 2017. He then led the development of a social-impact incubator focusing on digital technologies before launching OceanHub
Africa in 2019.

Jean Castellini
Minister of Finance and Economy
Jean Castellini is the Minister of Finance and Economy for the Principality of Monaco. He was appointed by His Serene Highness Prince
Albert II of Monaco and took up his position on the 26th of December 2012. Prior to his current position, from 2009 to 2012,
Mr. Castellini was the Chief Executive O cer of the J. Safra Bank (Monaco). In his early career, he worked nine years for Barra, the world's
leading risk analytics provider for investment portfolios.Then from 1998 to 2004, he worked in Paris for Russell Investments, a leader in
investment advice for institutional investors. He returned to Monaco in 2004 where during the rst two years, he set up his own
consultancy Investment Research providing services in economic and nancial matters to both the Prince’s Government and to the
National Council. He was then appointed by The Prince to advise The Prince’s Cabinet from 2006 to 2007. Then appointed Secretary
General of the Monaco Financial Services Authority (CCAF) until 2009.

Micol Chiesa
Climate Tech Investor and Head of Climate Science, Planet Fund
Micol is Partner and Head of Climate Science at Planet Fund, a leading early-stage climate tech VC fund. She sits on the technical
advisory board of several companies, including Dovetail - a pioneer in enabling the financial sector's response to climate change and
water issues. Micol was Head of Impact Investing at Five Seasons Ventures, the largest food-tech impact fund in Europe, and spent
several years at Bain and Company helping fast-moving innovators scale with purpose in the private equity and energy and resources
industries. Micol holds an MA in environmental economics from Johns Hopkins SAIS, Energy Resources and Environment Programme,
and a PhD in environmental finance from the University of Oxford, Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment.

Rita Sousa
Partner, Faber Ocean
Rita Sousa is Partner of the Ocean / Climate Tech Fund at Faber, a Lisbon based VC firm investing in outstanding entrepreneurs who
innovate at the intersection of science and technology to drive digital transformation and climate action. The firm combines a specialist
focus on deep tech early-stage startups with dedicated funds, investment teams and expert advisors to actively help founders build
global companies powered by AI/data or Ocean/Climate Tech. With more than 8 years experience in VC, she co-leads the
Ocean/Climate tech fund investments in deep tech early stage startups aiming for positive impact on ocean sustainability, climate
action and decarbonization of the global economy. Prior to joining the VC industry, Rita worked in the energy and utilities sector, in
innovation and CRM consultancy, in multinational companies such as Veolia, Altran and ABB. In parallel, she has also been working with
the European Commission as a Jury member of several Entrepreneurship funding programs such as the EIC Accelerator Pilot. Rita has a
degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Lisbon, an MSc. in Energy Systems from the University of Strathclyde, an MBA
from AESE/IESE Business School and a Master in Finance from Católica Lisbon School of Business & Economics.

Lian Michelson
Investment Director, Vala Capital
Lian is an Investment Director at Vala Capital, investing in impact and climate focused early stage UK startups, and Founding Partner at
the United Ocean Fund - a new global, early stage, ocean tech VC fund. She is also an impact angel investor in 20+ companies, and has
worked with funds such as US-based Conscience VC as a Venture Partner focusing on the intersection of deep tech and consumer, and
startup accelerator Antler as a Capital Advisor. Previously, Lian founded a fashion tech marketplace and ran the UK expansion of a
European fintech company as their UK CEO. Lian started her career as a Fixed Income trader for Morgan Stanley where she managed
$bn+ portfolio, and holds a Master’s degree in Computer Science.

Damian Payiatakis
Head of sustainable and impact investing, Barclays
Damian leads Barclays e orts to guide individuals, families, and charities on how to invest both to protect and grow their assets and to
make a positive contribution to our world. His team advises the rm’s private and public market specialists on how to incorporate ethical,
responsible and impact approaches into their products, portfolios, and services. His team’s work has been recognised by the UK Cabinet
O ce and Investment Week’s Sustainable Investment Awards, as well as the UK National Advisory Board on Impact Investing. Damian
was part of the UK Government’s Taskforce on the topic and is a frequent commentator in publications such as Financial Times, CNN
Money, Reuters, as well as a speaker at impact investing conferences. His work as an intrapreneur has featured in Harvard Business
Review. Damian graduated from Brandeis University summa cum laude with Highest Honours. He also holds both a M.A. in
International Economics & Finance from Brandeis International Business School and a M.Sc. in Organisational & Social Psychology from
the London School of Economics.

Rupert Hayward
Director Grand Bahama Port Authority / Blue Action Lab
Rupert, a Bahamian and British national, is Founder and President at the Blue Action Lab and Blue Action Ventures and a board director
and IC member of the Blue Action Accelerator, a JV with Founders Factory. He is an executive director of the Grand Bahama Port
Authority and the Grand Bahama Disaster Relief Foundation. He is also an advisor to Global Harvester Holdings, a UK green merchant
bank. He holds a Govt appointed board seat on The Bahamas Protected Areas Fund and is an advisor to the University of The Bahamas,
on climate and resilience. He brings more than 20 years of international investment experience in both emerging and developed
markets. He is one of the original partners at Salamanca Group, a British merchant bank. Rupert, alongside his partners, spent almost 10
years building the business from a boutique investment advisory firm into a fully-fledged merchant bank, which included the merger
of a risk consulting business (S-RM), the acquisition of Investec bank's trust business, and the development of 19 offices worldwide. He
completed his MA (Hons) in Geography — Caribbean Development — at Edinburgh University, UK, in 2003, and has an MBA in
Sustainable Business Management from Presidio Graduate School, San Francisco.

Kelly Erhart
Co-founder and President, Vesta
Kelly Erhart is Co-founder and President of Vesta, an ocean-based carbon dioxide removal company. Kelly’s work has focused on the
commercialization of sustainable technologies and climate solutions through non-profit, for-profit, and hybrid organizations.

Dale Galvin
Managing Director, Global Fund for Coral Reefs
Over his career, Dale Galvin has served in a variety of leadership roles in the in the international conservation, finance, investment, and
technology sectors. His positions have included Fund Manager of the Meloy Fund I, LP, Chief Operating Officer of Rare, an international
conservation organization, and Chief Financial Officer of PA Consulting Group North America. Galvin holds a B.A. in Economics from
Cornell University and an M.B.A. from the MIT Sloan School of Management. Mr. Galvin is the Managing Partner of Deliberate Capital
LLC, a subadvisor to Pegasus and the Global Fund for Coral Reefs.

James Lindsay
Principal, Builders Vision
James Lindsay is dedicated to investing in sustainable businesses and investment platforms at Builders Initiative. Major focus areas
include investing & supporting startups and fund managers addressing ocean sustainability, as well as the energy transition & climate
justice.

Sara Andreotti
Chief Operation Officer, Shark Safe Barrier
Dr Sara Andreotti is a marine biologist, extraordinary lecturer of Stellenbosch University, working toward the development of a global
long-term management system and conservation plan for sharks since 2009. She completed her PhD at Stellenbosch University in
March 2015; her research involved genetic techniques and photographic identification to better assess the population status and
dispersal events of South African white sharks. The outcome was the first national assessment of white shark population numbers and
genetic structure, and the genetic work recently expanded in an international collaboration with the University of Queensland and
Flinders University (Australia). Sara is now focusing on her own research and more recently also supervising two PhD and three Master
students. Further, following her passion for shark conservation, Sara co-founded SharkSafe Barriers (Pty) Ltd, a South African company
aiming to provide an eco-friendly and shark-specific technology to keep swimmers and surfers safe from large predatory sharks; she is
one of the four co-inventors of the SharkSafe BarrierTM, a patented technology which successfully bio-mimics the visual effects of a
kelp forest and combines this with a series of permanent magnetic stimuli to form a barrier that dissuades sharks from passing through,
without affecting other marine life. The SharkSafe BarrierTM aims to be the ultimate solution for a peaceful coexistence between beach
goers and large sharks, for rejuvenating both the local ecology and tourism of coastal areas. Sara is currently the COO and one of the
Founding Directors of SharkSafe Barrier Pty Ltd.

Marc García-Durán Huet
Executive President and Founder, Underwater Gardens
Marc is the Executive President and Founder of Underwater Gardens International, a company that makes Ocean regeneration,
adaptation, and mitigation to Climate Change financially viable while promoting local socioeconomic growth. This initiative has been
presented at COP27, at the ADSFF, has received the UN Ocean Decade Endorsement, as well as the financial support of Private Investors,
ENISA (Spanish Government), Horizon Europe program (European Commission) and is sponsored by BNP PARIBAS. UGI is formed by a
multidisciplinary network of professionals and experts with wide international recognition that integrates a scientific and business
perspective.

Thomas LeQuinquis
Marketing Director, Lancaster
Thomas oversees the global innovation strategy of the Lancaster brand, both for Skincare & Suncare. Working in close partnership with
the Lancaster laboratories based in Monaco, he defines the pipeline of new products that will be sold around the world, from Monaco
all the way to China. He sees business as a force for good, and finds purpose in developing planet-friendly, innovative solutions that
enhance people’s lives and well-being whilst continuously raising the bar in terms of sustainability. When it comes to sustainability,
Thomas firmly believes that businesses have a responsibility to strive to perpetually elevate their sustainability ambitions, leveraging
innovation to drive real progress. He is really proud to work for Coty, a company that is pushing the entire cosmetics industry to put
sustainability at the heart of their strategies.

Ingrid Maurstad
Impact Director, Katapult Ocean
Ingrid Maurstad is the Impact Director of Katapult Ocean, a Norwegian Impact investment firm. With a global scope, Katapult Ocean
invests in and accelerates startups that have a positive impact on the ocean. Ingrid has an MSc in Economics and Business
Administration from NHH Norwegian School of Economics and Entrepreneurship studies from Wits Business School in South Africa. She
has previously worked with investment in social entrepreneurship in the Norwegian family-owned investment company Ferd and has
also extensive experience from funding social impact projects in The Norwegian Olympic and Paralympic Committee and
Confederation of Sports.

Sam Teicher
Co-Founder and Chief Reef Officer, Coral Vita
Sam Teicher is the Co-Founder and Chief Reef Officer of Coral Vita, a social enterprise that grows resilient corals in months instead of
decades to restore dying reefs and winner of Prince William's inaugural Revive Our Oceans Earthshot Prize. Coral reefs sustain up to one
billion people’s livelihoods and 25% of marine life while providing an estimated $2.7 trillion of value per year through goods and
services. But half of reefs are dead and over 90% are on track to die by 2050. Through a commercial model that sells coral restoration as
a service to reef-dependent customers, Coral Vita works to catalyze a Restoration Economy to support large-scale restoration. Their first
coral farm is in Grand Bahama, and they ultimately envision land-based facilities in every nation with reefs to preserve these ecosystems
for future generations. Sam previously worked on climate resiliency initiatives at the White House and for the Global Island Partnership,
is a Forbes 30 Under 30 Social Entrepreneur, co-authored Sustainable Development Goal 14, launched Coral Vita out of his master’s
program at Yale, and has been in love with the ocean since becoming a scuba diver as a child.

Nico Rosberg
2016 Formula One World Champion, awarded Sustainability Entrepreneur and Greentech Investor
Nico Rosberg - 2016 Formula One World Champion - is an awarded Sustainability Entrepreneur and Greentech Investor. Guided by his
passion to inspire communities and accelerate green innovation, he Co-founded the Greentech Festival. A global platform for
changemakers and green technologies. He is an advocate for sustainable mobility and invests in green solutions across different
industries to drive positive change for the benefit of both the environment and future generations.

Carrie Chan
Co-Founder and CEO, AVANT
Carrie is a seasoned business executive with a passion for the environment, particularly the impact of our food supply on the planet.
With experiences in strategy and general management, she also managed major greenfield Capex projects from conception to
revenue-generating operations. She is a Bloomberg New Economy Catalyst 2022 and holds MBA from INSEAD. Carrie co-founded Avant
with Dr Mario Chin in 2018 in Hong Kong, the first cultivated fish company in Asia, and expanded to Singapore in 2021. Avant’s
technology offers a system to produce nutritious, tasty fish and functional proteins directly from fish cells at economically viable costs.
The group’s end-to-end technology platform also allows continuous new product development from scratch to production. At Avant,
Carrie provides the vision, guides the strategy and supervises the implementation.

Simon Hazell
Co-Founder and CEO, INSECO
Inseco is an insect company. Using industrial-scale biotechnology, we convert organic by-products (i.e. food waste) into insect-based
protein, oil and fertiliser at our state of the art 10,000m2 facility in Cape Town, South Africa. Our protein and oil products have
applications in aquaculture, animal feed, and pet food, and are cost-effective and sustainable alternatives to conventional ingredients
such as fishmeal, soybean meal and fish-oil. Our fertiliser product is carbon negative, and enhances the quality of the soil, stimulates
microbial activity and supports plant defences. Using cutting edge technology, we are responding to the demand for sustainable and
high-quality ingredients to feed a rapidly growing global population.

Ofek Ron
CEO, Plantish
Ofek Ron is the CEO & Co-Founder of Plantish. A passionate entrepreneur and animal activist, Ofek started his journey in tech by
founding an event production company that was merged with a software distribution company, where he spent years being their CEO
and growing the team. During this time, he became a board member at a non-profit organization called Vegan-Friendly, where he later
joined full time and became the Vice President of Business Development, working with multinational corporations such as Nestle,
Pepsico, and Unilever on launching their plant-based products in the Israeli market. He was also instrumental in founding the UK Vegan
Friendly branch. Ofek graduated from the Interdisciplinary Center in Herzliya with a degree in Economics and Business.Ofek lives in Tel
Aviv, Israel and is married to Adva, and father to Arbel and Agam.

Dan Watson
CEO, Safety Net Technologies
Eternal optimist and engineer, now CEO working in the fisheries space to build technologies to enable Precision Fishing in support of
SDG14. Co-built SafetyNet Technologies into a company that designs and produces robust, user-friendly and affordable hardware and
software solutions that make fishing better operated and better understood and help tackle the multi-billion-$ issue of unsustainable
fishing. Committed to working with our end-customers and users to design products that do what's needed to make measurable and
lasting positive impacts in the ocean. We won't get there alone - let's collaborate.

Natalie Gartmann
ESG and Impact Manager, Pegasus Capital Advisors
Natalie Gartmann is the ESG & Impact Manager of Pegasus. Prior to joining Pegasus, Ms. Gartmann was a Consultant at the global
management consulting firm Sustainserv where she advised companies on integrating sustainability into long-term strategies,
everyday operations, and reporting. She has a strong background in the financial sector, which includes developing and implementing
responsible investment policies, integrating ESG into investment decision-making processes, and conducting impact assessments. Ms.
Gartmann holds a Master’s in Management from HEC Paris and a Bachelor’s degree in International Affairs from the University of
St. Gallen.

Johaness Bochdalofsky
Founder, SEAH4
Johannes is an experienced engineer who has devoted his 17-year career to the ocean. He has a proven track record as project manager
on large-scale coastal developments, established a reputation for successful salvages, and contributed to develop a sophisticated AI
system for navigating ships in rough waters. Johannes is currently on a mission to reduce the carbon emissions of the long distance
transport sector with his new venture, SEAH4. His ambition is to replace fossil fuels with a carbon-neutral alternative which involves
community-led algae farming in desert areas on a large scale. By applying his engineering expertise and passion for the ocean,
Johannes is determined to make his part for a blueEr future.

Danielle Southcott
Founder and CEO, Veer
Founder of the award-winning SAILCARGO INC. and Veer Group (which is nominated for the EarthShot prize), Danielle was named by
the Royal Institute of Naval Architects as one of the most influential women of the past century, and was listed by The Ocean
Opportunity Lab as an inspirational female founder to watch. Originally from the Great Lakes of Canada, Danielle began sailing at age
13. A graduate of the ‘’Enkhuizer’’ Sea Academy, she learned Dutch to graduate. She obtained her 200T masters ticket at the age of 21
which empowered her to captain of the flagship of Barbados, cargo schooner RUTH. Danielle wrote and implemented the successful
beach-launch of RUTH, which was the largest ship built in the history of the country. She is co-founder of a Costa Rican non-profit that
plants thousands of trees and creates jobs in a vulnerable coastal community. Each year Danielle’s company sponsors a young lady to
sail on the tallship ST. LAWRENCE II – a ‘’thank you’’ to the Canadian ship that first inspired her.

Miguel Navalon
Founder, Navlandis
Miguel Navalón, CEO of Navlandis, is a MSc Civil Engineer by the Politechnical University of Valencia, and graduated as MBA by ESIC,
Business & Marketing School. Previously, he was co-founder and managing partner of ENNiA, a company offering technical services in
engineering, architecture and urban planning, complementing his activity as Associate Professor at University Jaume I in Castellón.
Now, Miguel is founder and CEO of Navlandis, a startup with a strong R&D component, focused in logistics technologies, that dreams
in a more efficient and sustainable transport. His first development is Zbox a new patented foldable container, to optimize the
relocation of empty containers, reducing their operating costs and their environmental impact. Zbox has the same features than the
standard container, but it can be folded when it’s empty, and bundled 5 containers in the volume of 1, reducing 50% of the cost, 80%
of space, and 20% of CO2 emissions.

Sebastian Heitmann
Co Founder, Extantia Capital
Sebastian is co-founder of Extantia Capital, a €300m climate first investment platform backing founders of breakthrough technologies
that accelerate a transition to a decabonized world and thus enable long term growth within planetary boundaries.

Børge Bjørneklett
Founder and CEO, Ocean Sun
Dr. Børge Bjørneklett is founder and CEO of Ocean Sun and has worked in the automotive, offshore O&G and the solar industries. In 2016
he founded Ocean Sun based on an invention for floating solar plants. Ocean Sun has 15 employees and is listed on the Oslo Exchange.
Ocean Sun has built floating solar power plants in Norway, Singapore, Philippines, Albania and China. Børge has a PhD in Materials
Science.

Tom Birbeck
Founder and CEO, ARC Marine
Tom Birbeck is the founder & CEO of ARC Marine with a background in commercial diving, aquaculture and sustainable fishing. Tom is
also a keen sailor, having raced competitively both nationally and internationally.ARC Marine is an innovative eco engineering company
whose mission is to accelerate reef creation on an unprecedented scale. Tom has successfully led the company through a seed round
of investment of $2.5m and the R&D phase of Reef Cubes®, while establishing ARC Marine in the “climate tech” sector in which it gains
momentum. ARC is preparing for Series A investment with an ideal investor consortium of marine conservationists and strategic
partners in marine construction with a broad demographic to help realise their global plans.ARC Marine’s vision is to pioneer the
opportunity to convert every offshore construction & coastal project into a thriving marine ecosystem.

William Janssen
CEO, Desalenator
William Janssen is Founder and CEO of Desolenator. With a background in Mechanical Engineering, he spent most of his early career in
Project Managing large infrastructure project, building airport terminals in East-Asia and the Middle East. It was in Abu Dhabi where
William had the original Eureka moment for the Desolenator integrated direct solar desalinization concept. Since then the company has
grown from strength to strength and has now completed their first project at the Jebel Ali station for DEWA in Dubai and several more
project underway. William will able to share specific knowledge on sustainability desalination and brine management through the
principle of Zero-liquid discharge.

Maya Kashapov
Business Development, Captura
Maya Kashapov is on the Business Development team at Captura, driving its Direct Ocean Capture technology from the concept phase
through to global commercial deployment. She holds a Master’s degree in Climate Change from the Climate School at Columbia
University in New York City and was a Founding Fellow at Climatebase, a talent mobilization platform focused on accelerating climate
solutions. Captura draws down planet-warming CO2 from the atmosphere via the ocean, offering a tool that can remove any emission
from anywhere on the planet and from any moment in time. The only inputs needed for the process are ocean water and renewable
electricity, with no by-products produced. California-based Captura was founded in 2021 and offers safe, durable, additional, scalable,
and verifiable carbon removal at a low cost and global scale. The technology can also be used to address ocean acidification in localized
areas. Captura has been named as a Carbon Removal XPRIZE Milestone Award winner and was awarded a pre-purchase contract from
Frontier Climate.

Shruti Iyengar
Investment Manager, Future Planet Capital
Shruti Iyengar is an Investment Manager at Future Planet Capital where she works on the UK Innovation and Science Seed Fund as well
as the Blue Ocean Mandate. Prior to joining FPC, she was an Investor with an early-stage climate tech fund, Sustainable Ventures, where
she managed a portfolio of 36 companies, lead their 12 month-long Accelerator programme, and built out their impact measurement
practice. Shruti is also the co-founder of Climate Mosaic, an initiative focussed on empowering currently underrepresented investors
and founders solving climate challenges, by providing them a close-knit community and peer group support. Shruti began her career
in Singapore where she worked with organizations across Southeast Asia including UN Women, Singapore International Foundation,
and DBS Foundation to build out their impact investing and measurement strategies. Through her work with the Government of
Singapore she helped them deliver and measure the impact of their SME innovation/grant programmes across sectors from environment/water tech to precision engineering, and also mentored early-stage founders across sustainability and health as part of numerous
incubators. Shruti holds a dual degree in Mathematics and Economics from Nanyang Technological University, Singapore and is a
Women's Merit Scholar from London Business School's master's in finance programme.

Rodrigo Garcia Gonzalez
Co-Founder and Co-CEO, Notpla
Rodrigo is an inventor, designer, architect and engineer. He has a Master of Architecture with Honours from the Polytechnic University
of Madrid, as well as postgraduate qualifications from the Centre for Environmental Planning and Technology University (India),
Industrial Design at Pontificia Universidad Católica (Chile), the Umeå Institute of Design, Imperial College London and the Royal College
of Art. Prior to Ooho he invented and developed different patents on structural and deployable systems, following suitcases, and other
products. As a lecturer, he has collaborated with different institutions such as Cornell University (USA), CEPT (India) and Kingston
University(UK). He won the Gold Medal in the 2nd Improvisation World Championship celebrated in 2009 Santiago de Chile, has been
awarded with the National Dyson Design Award, the British-Spanish Society-Telefonica Award, and has won the GAUDI European
Competition on Sustainable Architecture three times. In addition to that, as Co-CEO and cofounder of Notpla, he won the Prince
William’s £1,000,000 Earthshot Prize in 2022

Joost den Haan
Co-Founder and CEO, planblue
Joost is CEO and Co-founder at planblue. He’s been an active diver for 17+ years and has seen the seafloor literally degrade in front of
his eyes. His passion for protecting our oceans initially drove him down a scientific path (MSc, PhD, postdoc). In 2017, he started the
company planblue with his co-founders, raising significant public and private investments to literally put the seafloor on the map again.
Why? The seafloor plays a key role in mitigating the climate crisis, as it harbours the best carbon sequestration tools nature has to offer,
such as seagrass meadows. To help unlock the economic and ecological potential of the seafloor, planblue developed the world’s first
underwater satellite and associated software platform, the SeafloorAtlas. By combining advanced imaging, underwater navigation and
AI, planblue ground-truths aerial and satellite imagery to, for example, help unlock blue carbon credits on a global scale - starting with
seagrass meadows. Joost has given talks worldwide, including a TEDx, to champion the seafloor’s protection and sustainable use.

Philippe Despres
University of Laval
Prof Philippe Després is a High-Performance Computing (HPC) expert, who pioneered the use of massively parallel calculation
platforms in accelerating algorithms in medicine, such as tomographic reconstruction in radiology and dose calculations in radiation
oncology. As a HPC expert, he is heavily involved in the development of digital research infrastructures, FAIR-compliant research data
management, and data-driven projects at the interface of artificial intelligence and health. He is the Director of the Big Data Research
Center at Université Laval and the co-lead of the Health axis of the International observatory on the societal impacts of AI and digital
technology (OBVIA). Prof Després is also a member of the Researcher Council of the Digital Research Alliance of Canada.

Jean Marc Temmos
CEO, Semantic TS
Jean-Marc TEMMOS is 49 years old, married, and has two children. After a scientific education, including preparatory classes and
SEATECH engineering school, he had the opportunity to participate, in the early 2000s, in the launch of a startup in digital cartography.
A period of exciting expansion began, since the startup grew from 6 to over 100 people (incidentally with 2 fundraisings). This era
ended with the acquisition of the startup by a large American car equipment supplier. He then led research and innovation programs
and fostered greater organizational innovation capabilities. 8 years ago, missing the independence and reactivity of SMEs, he decided
to take over the management of SEMANTIC TS, an engineering service provider in environment and oceanography. After 8 years as the
CEO and the tripling of the turnover, the company is still growing and has several activities including Oceanography, Underwater
Acoustics, Software development and AI dedicated to the monitoring of the maritime environment, for both civil and military
applications.

George Richards
Director. Communitv Jameel
George Richards is the Director of Community Jameel, an independent, global organisation advancing science to help communities
thrive in a rapidly changing world. Prior to becoming Director in 2020, George led strategy for the organisation from 2015 and was head
of heritage programmes at Art Jameel, the arts and culture organisation, with responsibility for initiatives in Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Iraq
and beyond, sustaining traditional cultural practices, supporting architectural preservation, and digitally recording heritage.An Arabist
specialising in the archaeoastronomy of pre-Islamic Arabia, George has undertaken field expeditions to document cultural heritage on
behalf of the British Library and the British Institute for the Study of Iraq, and has served as the special rapporteur for cultural heritage
to the Kurdistan Regional Government; a specialist assessor to the British government's Cultural Protection Fund; and a senior fellow at
the Iraqi government's cultural heritage commission, Iraq Heritage. George took a First in Arabic and Persian from the University of
Edinburgh in 2003. He is a fellow of the Royal Geographical Society, a fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland and a trustee of
The Prince's Foundation.

Kortney Opshaug
Founder and CEO. Blue Ocean Gear
Kortney Opshaug is the CEO of Blue Ocean Gear, a California-based technology company focused on Smart Buoys for commercial
fishing fleets to track gear on the ocean. The data from these products allow harvesters to know where their gear is at all times, reducing
gear loss and fuel use, while also providing critical information for fisheries and adjacent ocean industries. She founded the company
in 2015 and has led the growth of the business and product development through close collaboration with fishers throughout North
America, as well as fostered partnerships with the Global Ghost Gear Initiative, Canada’s DFO, and NOAA. Today, Blue Ocean Gear has
delivered over 700 Smart Buoys to fisheries around North America, providing data-driven insights to customers, and is positioned to
scale the business in new markets.

