Code of Conduct

Table of contents
Foreword by the
Executive Board and the
Group Works Council
Self-test for decision
guidance
We are one
We are committed
individuals
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5

Human rights
Ethical leadership
Diversity, equal opportunities
and equal participation
Speak Up
Employee representation

We are reliable
colleagues
2.1
2.2
2.3

2.4
2.5

Occupational health
and safety
Handling company assets
Security and protection of
information, know-how
and intellectual property
Quality
Risk Management

We are responsible
partners
3.1
3.2
3.3
3.4
3.5
3.6
3.7
3.8
3.9

Conflicts of interest
Benefits
Prohibition of corruption
Prohibition of insider trading
Prohibition of money laundering
and terrorism financing
Fair and free competition
Business partners,
procurement and sales
Accounting and
financial reporting
Export control

We are good
corporate citizens
4.1

Communication
and marketing
4.2 Political lobbying
4.3 Dealings with public officials
4.4 Donations and social sponsorship
4.5 Taxes and customs
4.6 Data protection
4.7 IT security
4.8 Artificial Intelligence
4.9 Product Compliance
4.10 Environmental protection
4.11 Animal welfare

Support

Foreword by the Executive Board
and the Group Works Council
Porsche stands for strong values – not only
with respect to the world-famous sports
cars which have been at the heart of the
company's success story for many decades. We owe our outstanding reputation
above all to the committed performance
of our employees. As a manufacturer of
exclusive products, our customers’ expectations are, rightly so, especially high. Our
loyal customers want to be able to relate
to Porsche – and to do so unconditionally.
This expectation places an obligation on us
to ensure that we conduct ourselves with
absolute integrity in every situation. Our
good image is a vital factor in guaranteeing
our long-term success into the future. This
is why integrity, legal certainty and compliance are crucial elements of our values for
both Porsche and our customers.
It is critical for all employees of Porsche AG
and its Group Companies to understand
the importance of proper and responsible conduct both at work and, in particular,
when representing the company in public.
Our mission and vision as well as our strategy, our culture mission statement and

business rules serve as the framework for
our entrepreneurial activities. In this Code
of Conduct, Porsche AG has defined for
itself and its Group Companies the fundamental principles to ensure that business
activities are performed in compliance with
the law. This Code of Conduct is applicable
to all contacts and dealings with customers,
business partners, suppliers, competitors
and public officials as well as colleagues.
At all times we seek to show tolerance and
respect in our business dealings in line with
the established Porsche culture.
This Code of Conduct summarizes the
most important rules and regulations. As a
guideline, it supplies a fundamental orientation and documents our common understanding of legal compliance. With this
goal, the Code of Conduct is intended for
all board members, members of the management bodies, managers and employees
in the Porsche Group. The Code of Conduct
reflects Porsche’s vision in respect of legal
integrity in business and expresses it clearly:
“Sporty and fair – that’s typical Porsche.”

Executive Board from top left to bottom right: Dr. Michael Leiters (Chairman of the Executive Board), Matthias Becker (Sales and Marketing),
Jochen Breckner (Finance and IT), Joachim Scharnagl (Procurement), Vera Schalwig (Human Resources and Social Affairs), Sajjad Khan (Car-IT),
Albrecht Reimold (Production and Logistics), Michael Steiner (Deputy Chairman, Research and Development)
For the Group Works Council from left to right: Harald Buck (Chairman of the Group Works Council), Carsten Schumacher (Deputy Chairman
of the Group Works Council)

5

Self-test for decision guidance
If at any time I am unsure whether my behaviour
complies with the principles set out in this guideline,
I should ask myself the following questions.
If my answer to questions 1– 6 is “yes” and the answer to question 7 is positive,
my behaviour is very likely to be compliant with our principles.
If questions remain unanswered or if I have any doubts, I should get in touch
with any of the points of contact listed in the Support chapter.

1

Did I take all relevant matters into
consideration and weigh them properly?

2

Am I confident that my decision is within
the constraints of legal and company
requirements?

3

(content test)

(legality test)

Do I stand by my decision when
it is revealed?
(supervisor test)

4
5
6
7

Am I in favour of all such cases being
decided the same way company-wide?
(universality test)

Do I still think my decision is right when
my company has to justify it in public?
(public test)

Would I accept my own decision
if I were affected?
(involvment test)

What would my family say about
my decision?
(second opinion)

CORRECT

OBJECTIVE

COMPLIANCE
SPORTY
AND FAIR

We are one

We follow the rules

We decide based on
factual criteria

INDEPENDENT
We do not make ourselves
dependent on others

TRANSPARENT
We make comprehensible
decisions

The Code of Conduct is the ethical and
values-based foundation for acting with
integrity and in compliance with the rules
in the Porsche Group. It serves as a binding
guideline for all employees in all companies
– all over the world – and is supplemented
by directives and employment contractual
agreements.
We therefore always make our decisions
in accordance with our corporate values,
applicable national and international laws,
regulations, and internal commitments.
Our shared goal is to take responsibility for
our company and protect the reputation of
our brand. Therefore, we treat each other
and others with respect, fairness, and
as equals. We adhere to rules. Our board
members and managers serve as role
models and must prevent irregular
behaviour within the company, protect
their employees, and represent the
company internally and externally.

We are firmly convinced it is essential for
each and every one of us – employees,
members of the Board of Management and
managers – to act with honesty in order to
foster trust in our company, our products,
services, and innovations.
We do not tolerate violations of the Code
of Conduct. Anyone who violates the
guideline must expect appropriate and,
depending on the severity of the violation,
also legal consequences.
To prevent this from happening, it is the
responsibility of each of us to familiarize
ourselves with the contents of this
guideline, incorporate it into our own
behaviour, and consider it when making
decisions. In cases of doubt, we seek
expert advice. If needed, the contact
points listed under Support are available.
The Code of Conduct uses case studies to
help us identify and appropriately address
relevant risk and conflict areas.

Compliance
Sporty and fair – that’s typical Porsche

9

I.
We are committed
individuals
We live our corporate values, principles and rules
and promote trusting, honest and fair interactions.
We are all role models.

1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5

Human rights
Ethical leadership
Diversity, equal opportunities
and equal participation
Speak Up
Employee representation

1.1

Human rights

We take responsibility
for human rights
CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

MY CONTRIBUTION

We respect, protect, and promote
applicable human rights regulations
worldwide as fundamental and universally
applicable principles. We reject the use of
child, forced, and compulsory labour, as
well as forms of modern slavery and human
trafficking. This applies not only to the
cooperation within our company, but also
to the behaviour of and toward business
partners.

As an employee, I can also make my
contribution to respecting human rights.
I regard human rights as a fundamental
guideline, and I am vigilant against human
rights violations that are happening around
me or of which I become aware.

With the "Policy statement on respect
for and promotion of human rights", the
Executive Board and the Group Works
Council commit to respecting human
rights and, in particular, to promoting
good working conditions and fair trade.
We confirm our commitment to major
international agreements and declarations,
in particular the International Bill of Human
Rights and the core labour standards of the
International Labour Organization (ILO).
Our entrepreneurial activities follow the
UN Guiding Principles on Business and
Human Rights, which determine the most
important cornerstones for our actions.

12

If I have any indications of human rights
violations in my professional environment,
I will inform my supervisor, the
Business & Human Rights office at
humanrights@porsche.de or the contact
persons listed in the Support chapter.

EXAMPLE
I am responsible for purchasing certain goods.
I receive information that people in a supplier's
production facility are forced to work under
inhumane conditions, for example, exposed to
health hazards.
I will inform my supervisor, the Business & Human
Rights office at humanrights@porsche.de, or the
contact persons listed in the Support section.
This way, the matter can be clarified, and any
violations identified can be stopped.

1.2

Ethical leadership

1.3

We lead and act based
on our values

We live diversity

CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

MY CONTRIBUTION

We live by our Code of Conduct and make
decisions based on it. In this way, we foster
a culture of trust, honesty, transparency,
and respect. All employees are responsible
for contributing to this through their own
values-based actions.

Diversity, equal opportunities, and equal
participation are important principles for
fair, non-discriminatory, and respectful
coexistence. We stand for partnership,
tolerance and mutual respect.

I observe the principles of diversity, equal
opportunities and equal participation and
encourage people around me to do the same.

MY CONTRIBUTION
I am aware of my role as a role model both
internally and externally and act according
to these principles of conduct. I lead by
example, am open to different opinions
and engage with them constructively.

EXAMPLE
I notice that a colleague from another team
has to complete an analysis promptly. I've
already prepared an analysis on this topic in
the past, which could provide valuable input
for my colleague. Although sharing this
information doesn't directly benefit my own
work, after consulting with my supervisor,
I approach my colleague, share my analysis,
and offer my support.
By doing so, I act in the company's best
interest, promote a quick and well-founded
result, and foster cross-team collaboration.

14

Diversity, equal opportunities and equal participation

We offer equal opportunities for everyone
and reject all forms of discrimination.
This applies in particular to unequal
treatment due to ethnic or social origin,
skin colour, gender, nationality, language,
religion, ideology, age, physical or mental
disabilities, sexual orientation and identity,
political views, or any other comparable
characteristics.
We promote diversity in our workforce and
are committed to an inclusive working
environment that includes all employees,
creates and strengthens the necessary
conditions for this, and at the same time
promotes the individuality of each individual
in the company's interest. Our employees
are selected, hired, and developed based on
their qualifications and their skills.

If I see any violations of the principles of
equal opportunities and equal participation,
such as unequal treatment, harassment,
and bullying, I make the persons involved
aware of their misconduct. If I am not in
a position to directly influence events,
I notify the HR department of the incident
immediatelyor contact the central Porsche
Anti-Discrimination Office at
antidiskriminierung@porsche.de.

EXAMPLE
I hear some of the people I work with
making disrespectful comments about
people on account of their ethnic origin
or skin colour.
I will address this discriminatory
behaviour directly or contact the Human
Resources department or the central
Porsche Anti-Discrimination Office at
antidiskriminierung@porsche.de.

15

1.4

Speak Up

1.5

We speak up when something is wrong

We work together in close partnership –
constructive, cooperative and fair

CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

MY CONTRIBUTION

CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

MY CONTRIBUTION

We want to learn from mistakes and
continuously improve. We accept mistakes
as part of progress.

If I have any questions or concerns, I first
speak to my supervisor or seek advice from
the contact points listed in the Support
section.

We recognize the fundamental right of all
employees globally to establish trade unions and employee representations.

I involve the responsible departments
within the company in good time
on all issues relevant to employee
representation.

As soon as something doesn’t feel right to
us, or we notice deficiencies, poor planning,
or process weaknesses, we address them
openly, even if it is uncomfortable. To this
end, we actively seek exchange within our
teams and with our supervisors. We seek
advice and support if we have questions
and problems.
Managers play an important role as role
models in this regard. They promote a
culture of openness and tolerance for
mistakes.

The HR department and employee representatives are also available to provide support.

EXAMPLE
The deadline for a decision proposal
submitted to a committee has expired
and I notice that my team and I have made
a mistake. I know it is not possible to take
a meaningful decision on the basis of the
data submitted.
I inform my supervisor and the departments
responsible for the committee immediately.
Jointly we find a way to correct the
document. I also discuss with my team how
such errors can be avoided in the future.

16

Employee representation

We are committed to working with
employee representatives in candour and
trust, to conducting a constructive and
cooperative dialog, and to striving for a fair
balance of interests. Professional dealings
with employee representatives, which
allows neither preferential treatment nor
disadvantage, are part of our corporate
culture.
Safeguarding the future of the Porsche
Group and its employees is achieved
in a spirit of cooperative conflict
management and social commitment,
on the basis and with the goal of economic
and technological competitiveness.
Economic efficiency and job protection
are equal-ranking and shared goals.

I recognize the participation rights of
employee representatives and am open
to different opinions.

EXAMPLE
I'm supposed to plan the flexible
deployment of staff in my department.
My colleagues don't know whether the
works council needs to be involved.
Therefore, in consultation with my
supervisor, I'm contacting the human
resources department. This is the
only way to ensure that the employee
representatives' participation rights are
preserved.

17

II.
We are reliable
colleagues
We take our responsibility in the workplace seriously
and protect what is valuable for our team, our
company, and our customers.

2.1
Occupational health and safety
2.2
Handling company assets
2.3	Security and protection of information,
know-how and intellectual property
2.4
Quality
2.5
Risk Management

2.1

Occupational health and safety

2.2

We respect and promote
health and safety

W
 e protect our assets –
whether visible or invisible

CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

MY CONTRIBUTION

CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

Occupational safety and health protection
of all employees is a fundamental value in
order to position the company sustainably
and as an attractive employer.

I comply with occupational health and
safety regulations and instructions. I do
not endanger my own health and safety
or that of my team or third parties.

We respect the company’s tangible and
intangible assets and do not use them
for non-business purposes, but solely to
achieve the company's business objectives.

We take our responsibility for the safety
and health of our employees very seriously.
We promote occupational health and safety
in line with the provisions of national laws
and regulations and with the occupational
health and safety policy of the company.
Through continuous improvement of
working conditions and a wide range of
preventive and health promotion measures,
we maintain and promote the physical and
mental health, performance, and job
satisfaction of our employees. This
requires the cooperation and
participation of everyone.

Within my area of responsibility, I take all
appropriate and statutory measures to
ensure a safe working environment. I draw
attention to unsafe actions or conditions.
I make an active contribution to maintaining
and promoting my health by voluntarily
participating in preventive healthcare and
health promotion activities. I follow
instructions, attend training, and align
my daily actions with them.

Exceptions are possible if internal policies
and guidelines permit private use.

MY CONTRIBUTION
I adhere to the company’s rules and
exercise care when handling company
assets.

EXAMPLE

EXAMPLE

I notice that a piece of work equipment in
my department is obviously defective.

High-end software is installed on my business
laptop. A friend who knows this asks me to lend
him my laptop so that he can use one of these
programs for private purposes.

I will not use the equipment and will notify the
responsible supervisor to coordinate further
measures. Repairing equipment yourself is not
permitted and can be dangerous.

20

Handling company assets

I refuse because I know that I am not allowed to
make company property, including IT, accessible
to third parties.

21

2.3	Security and protection of information, know-how and intellectual property

We protect information and
intellectual property
CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

EXAMPLE

We are aware of the value of company
know-how and take great care to protect it.

I am involved in the development of an
innovative technology and am expected to
present this technology at various company
locations. I intend to review these
documents again on my way to the
individual locations.

We respect the intellectual property of
competitors, business partners and other
third parties.

MY CONTRIBUTION
I handle all company information carefully
and do not disclose it to unauthorized
persons. I take particular care with regard to
information relating to technical know-how,
patents, and trade and business secrets.

22

I must ensure that no one gains knowledge
of sensitive information belonging to the
company. Otherwise, this could lead to
serious competitive disadvantages. I
therefore do not access such information in
places (e. g., airplanes, trains) where third
parties can notice it.

2.4

Quality

2.5

Quality is our innermost motivation

We live a transparent risk culture

CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

Our goal is to proactively capture
tomorrow's customer needs and make them
tangible in the vehicle for generations to
come. Our actions are process-oriented,
and control-based. This prevents errors
or deviations from the outset, rather than
correcting them after they occur.
At Porsche, everyone is responsible for
quality. To achieve this, we leverage
the expertise of all business units, thus
ensuring a strong understanding of quality
throughout the company.

MY CONTRIBUTION
I make decisions based on objective
evidence (numbers, data, and facts) and
transparently present errors or deviations
and their effects as soon as I identify them.

In the case of deviations and regulatory
gaps, I work constructively to find
appropriate solutions, thus enabling
continuous improvement.
If I have any questions, I will contact the
responsible quality management consultant,
or the contact persons listed in the Support
section.

EXAMPLE
I notice that the process documentation
for the production workflow is out of date
in several places. Outdated documentation
can lead to misunderstandings and errors
during production. This poses a risk to the
quality of the manufactured parts and could
result in higher scrap rates and delays in
production.
I suggest updating the process
documentation promptly and ensuring
that all changes are recorded.
Furthermore, a regular review process
should be established to ensure that
the documentation remains current
and up to date.

24

Risk Management

The goal of a risk management system is to
identify risks that have a negative impact
on our corporate goals or our business
activities at an early stage, manage them
using effective control measures, and
continuously monitor them. Therefore, we
attach great importance to an open and
transparent approach to risks.
To fulfill our duty of care to Porsche and
applicable legal obligations, awareness of
risk management at all levels of the
company is crucial. The specialist
departments are supported by guidelines,
procedures, and methods in carrying out
risk identification, assessment,
management, and monitoring.

MY CONTRIBUTION
I am aware that risks that occur can cause
significant damage to my company.
Therefore, I identify and report risks early
and transparently.

I also initiate effective control measures
in a timely manner, within the scope of my
capabilities, and monitor them regularly.
If I am unsure, I consult my supervisor
or the department responsible for risk
management.

EXAMPLE
I learn that the production facility of
a key supplier is temporarily unable to
deliver materials due to flooding. This
could lead to a production stop or further problems for other departments.
Since this could cause significant damage to Porsche, I immediately inform
my supervisor and report the risk to
the department responsible for risk
management. This way, all
affected departments can be informed
in a timely manner and respond
appropriately. When reporting the
risk, I take into account any control
measures that have already been
implemented.

25

III.
We are responsible
partners
Trust is our most valuable asset. Therefore, we
conduct our business relationships with integrity,
reliability, transparency, and fairness.

3.1
Conflicts of interest
3.2
Benefits
3.3
Prohibition of corruption
3.4	Prohibition of insider trading
3.5	Prohibition of money laundering
and terrorism financing
3.6	Fair and free competition
3.7	Business partners, procurement and sales
3.8	Accounting and financial reporting
3.9
Export control

3.1

Conflicts of interest

3.2

We take decisions based on facts,
thus avoiding conflicts of interest

We carefully check all benefits

COROPORATE PRINCIPLE

MY CONTRIBUTION

CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

We act with integrity.

I avoid even the appearance of a conflict of
interest and promptly disclose any potential
or actual conflicts of interest to my
supervisor and the responsible HR
department or Compliance Helpdesk.

Our products and services define who we
are. Therefore, benefits in the form of gifts
and invitations are only permitted if they
are appropriate.

That is why it is especially important for
us to avoid creating potential conflicts of
interest when performing our job
responsibilities and to recognize and
disclose possible conflicts that we face
or that we observe. A potential conflict of
interest already exists if private or personal
financial interests of employees influence
or could influence their business decisions.
Conflicts of interest may arise both from
employees themselves or through persons
related to them, in particular as a result of
private involvement in other companies,
through secondary employment, in
connection with various memberships or
with regard to employees’ personal financial circumstances.
In this context, business relations with
third parties, such as other companies in
the Porsche Group or suppliers, may also
be relevant.

28

Benefits

EXAMPLE
My supervisor asks me to review offers from
several suppliers of plastic components and
to pre-select potential candidates. I discover
that one of the most favorable bids is from
the company of a good friend.
I inform my supervisor that I have a personal
connection that may involve a potential
conflict of interest. I withdraw from the
decision- making process to avoid any
appearance of a conflict of interest.

Our internal policies on handling gifts,
invitations and business meals set out what
benefits are appropriate and which review
steps must be taken when accepting and
granting them.

MY CONTRIBUTION
I familiarize myself with the policies on
handling gifts, invitations and business
meals, and adhere to them.
I check whether my behaviour is
appropriate and whether it might
influence my business decisions.

EXAMPLE
I work in purchasing. A tender is currently
underway. A participating supplier invites
me to a sporting event with no
professional connection.
Invitations and gifts from suppliers to
purchasing employees must always be
questioned, especially during a tender
process. Accepting benefits is not
permitted if doing so could give the
impression of undue influence.
If I have any questions, I will contact
my supervisor or the responsible
Compliance Helpdesk.

29

3.3

Prohibition of corruption

3.4

We do not bribe others and do not
accept bribes ourselves

We do not share insider knowledge

CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

EXAMPLE

CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

Corruption is prohibited worldwide and will
not be tolerated by Porsche.
Corruption is the misuse of an entrusted
position of power or influence for private
profit or the advantage of a third person in
disregard of laws or official duties.

I visit a supplier to inspect components for
local production. During my visit it becomes
obvious that the components have significant
defects. The responsible contact at the
supplier offers me a payment for ignoring
the defects and persuades me to accept the
defective components.

Benefits may only be granted or accepted
within the limits of internal policies and
applicable laws.

I will not accept the payment under any
circumstances, and I will immediately inform
my supervisor or the whistleblower system.

We handle information pertaining to share
company performance in accordance with
capital market requirements and do not
tolerate any insider trading. Insider
information is information of a precise
nature that has not been made public and
that, if it were made public, would be likely
to have a significant effect on the price
of the relevant financial instrument, e.g.,
stocks and shares. We may only use knowledge relating to insider-relevant projects
and processes internally in accordance with
the applicable internal policies and may
not divulge such knowledge to any outside
party, including family members, e.g., a
spouse.

MY CONTRIBUTION
I do not bribe, I do not accept bribes and
I avoid even the appearance of inadmissible
influence.
I familiarize myself with the internal regulations before giving or receiving gifts, or
before extending or accepting invitations to
events or business meals.
If I receive any corruption-related hints,
I will report them immediately to the
whistleblower system. Various reporting
channels are available to me for this
purpose; see the Support section.

30

Prohibition of insider trading

MY CONTRIBUTION
I do not engage in insider trading, nor do
I make any such recommendations to any
third party or induce any third party to
engage in insider trading. Furthermore, I
will not disclose any insider information
unless this occurs in the normal course of
my employment and in compliance with the
applicable internal regulations. I undertake
to familiarize myself with the applicable
internal company policy.

If I have access to insider information,
I will not purchase or sell financial
instruments using insider information.
This applies not only to trading in shares
of listed companies within the Group or
corresponding derivatives, but generally
to any financial instrument, including
those from suppliers, for example.

EXAMPLE
Through my work, I have learned that the
acquisition of a large, globally renowned
company will soon be announced. It is likely
that the company‘s share price will rise
significantly upon announcement of this
transaction. I know that a good friend is
currently considering selling shares in this
company and am considering advising my
friend that he should wait to sell his shares.
I will not, under any circumstances, tip my
friend off. Since the information I know,
which is not publicly available, is insider
knowledge, I am not permitted, under any
circumstances, to share this knowledge
with anyone else. By directly or indirectly
disclosing this information, I would be
committing a criminal offense.

31

3.5

Prohibition of money laundering and terrorism financing

W
 e are committed to clean
business practices
CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

MY CONTRIBUTION

Money laundering occurs when funds or
other assets originating directly or indirectly
from criminal offenses are introduced into
the legitimate economic system, thereby
concealing their origin. Terrorism financing
occurs when money or other resources are
provided for terrorist offenses or to support
terrorist organizations.

If there are indications of suspicious
behaviour or a suspicious transaction, I will
immediately contact the responsible contact
person for money laundering prevention.

It is our declared goal to maintain business
relationships only with reputable partners
whose business activities comply with legal
regulations and whose operating resources
are of legitimate origin.
We carefully check the identity of customers, business partners and other third
parties with whom we wish to do business.
We immediately assign incoming payments
to the corresponding services and book
them. We ensure transparent and open
payment flows.

EXAMPLE
A customer has overpaid and requests
the repayment not via bank transfer to
the original account, but via transfer to
a foreign account or by cash payment.
This kind of request requires an
explanation. I do not simply accept the
suggestion but ask the customer why
the refund cannot be repaid using the
same method as the original payment.
I seek advice from the responsible
contact person for money laundering
prevention.

33

3.6

Fair and free competition

We are committed to fair and
free competition
CORPORATE PRINCIPLE
Free and fair competition is protected
worldwide by antitrust rules of conduct.
Compliance with these rules ensures that
undue distortions of competition do not
occur in the respective markets – to the
benefit of all market participants.

into account. The purpose of these
procedures is to allow the relevant antitrust
authorities to examine whether
transactions will lead to an adverse change
in market structures and reduce effective
competition.

In particular, agreements and concerted
practices between competitors intended
to achieve or effect the restriction of free
competition are prohibited. This includes,
in particular, the fixing of prices and price
components, the division of customers
and market territories, and restrictions of
technical innovations. In addition, the
exchange of competitively relevant
information that reduces strategic
uncertainty about competitors’ market
behaviour is prohibited.

Violations of antitrust conduct rules can
not only to significantly damage a
company’s reputation but can also result
in substantial fines and damages. We
conduct business solely on the basis
of merit and market economy principles
as well as free and unhindered competition.
We like to compete and always adhere
to the laws and regulations and ethical
principles.

The abuse of a dominant market position is
also prohibited. Such abuse may occur, for
example, in the case of different treatment
of customers without objective justification
(discrimination) or in the enforcement of
unreasonable purchasing or sales conditions.

MY CONTRIBUTION

EXAMPLE

Whenever I come into contact with
competitors, I make sure that no information
is given or received that would allow
conclusions to be drawn about current or
future business conduct.

At a trade conference, I meet with
competitors’ employees and exchange
technical information with them. The
people I’m talking to try to elicit
information from me about Porsche's
internal plans for e-mobility (roadmaps,
start of production, vehicle volumes, technical development status, etc.) and seem
to have no problem with the
discussion content.
I make it clear to the people I'm talking
to that I won't discuss these topics and
change the subject. I create a brief memo
about the conversation and inform the
responsible Compliance Helpdesk.

We do not enter into anti-competitive
agreements with competitors. If our
company holds a dominant market
position, we do not abuse it.
We comply with the specific antitrust
provisions applicable to distribution
systems in our dealings with our
authorized distribution partners.

When conducting M&A transactions, the
need for merger control and investment
control notifications must also be taken

34

35

3.7

Business partners, procurement and sales

Accounting and financial reporting

We carefully check who
we do business with

We are committed to correct financial
accounting and reporting

CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

MY CONTRIBUTION

We comply with the legal framework for
proper accounting and financial reporting.
Transparency and correctness are our top
priority, as irregularities can potentially
have serious consequences for the company
and its responsible individuals.

I organize processes so that all business
financial data can be recorded correctly
and in time in the accounting system.
I also ensure that all relevant risks are
reported in a timely manner. If I have any
questions about the correct recording of
data, I contact my supervisor or the
responsible finance department.

We carefully select suppliers, service
providers and partner companies based
on objective criteria and make use of
competition. We only cooperate with
business partners in line with statutory
requirements, internal rules and guidelines.
We check the integrity of potential business
partners carefully before entering into
business relations and follow the processes
and contact procedures set out in the rules
and policies.
When purchasing or selling products and
services, we involve the responsible
departments in the process in good time
in accordance with the applicable policies.

MY CONTRIBUTION
I make myself familiar, that the integrity
of potential business partners has been
checked before entering into business
relations and follow the processes and
contact procedures set out in the rules and
policies. I do not unilaterally favor one
supplier, service provider or partner
company without objective reason, and I
promote competition and avoid any
conflict of interest.

36

3.8

I do not purchase any products or services
without first researching the market and
alternative suppliers. In doing so, I follow the
applicable procurement guidelines and involve
the responsible purchasing department at
an early stage before the planned delivery
and performance of services in line with the
applicable purchasing processes.
I make sure that remuneration is only paid
for services actually rendered and that the
remuneration is reasonable in relation to the
services rendered.
I also comply with the relevant guidelines
when commissioning Group companies.

EXAMPLE
It comes to your attention that a supplier is
to be commissioned without involving the
responsible purchasing department.
I will contact the responsible purchasing
department, or the contacts listed in the
Support section to ensure that the most
cost-effective offer for the company
is chosen.

To that end, we regularly inform all capital
market participants about our current
financial situation and business development. We publish our periodic financial
statements on time, which are prepared in
accordance with national and international
accounting regulations.

EXAMPLE
I urgently need new equipment.
However, my department’s budget for the
current fiscal year has already been used
up. I consider acquiring the equipment
nevertheless and posting the costs in
the next fiscal year when the budget
has been replenished.
I refrain from such action. Postings must
always be made in the period in which
the costs were incurred. Inappropriate
postings can have serious consequences
for the company.

37

3.9

Export control

We ensure compliance with all
regulations in cross-border trade
CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

MY CONTRIBUTION

EXAMPLE

We are aware of our social responsibility to
fulfil export control and sanctions obligations and are expressly committed to complying with the relevant legal regulations.

I regularly familiarize myself with the
company’s internal information and export
control regulations. Based on this information, I independently check in my daily
work whether these are subject to export
control regulations.

I’m commissioning a long-standing partner company
to develop a software component. To offset cost
pressure the partner suggests outsourcing parts of
the development to a subsidiary outside the EU. The
subsidiary is located in a country listed on Country
List A, as defined by the Groups export control
function.

Should I become aware that export control
regulations are being violated in my professional environment, I immediately take
every possible action to prevent or remedy
such violations.

There may be embargo regulations prohibiting
certain activities in that country. I’m contacting
the responsible export control function to coordinate
the next steps.

Under export control regulations, cross-­
border business operations and transactions
are subject to prohibitions, restrictions,
approval requirements or other monitoring
measures with regard to business partners,
goods, countries, financial resources or
intended uses involved.
This includes not only goods and commodities, but also technologies and software.
Temporary exports and technical transmissions, for example, via e-mail or cloud, are
also covered.
We ensure compliance with applicable
export control regulations and relevant
internal company guidelines.

38

If in doubt, I seek advice from the responsible export control contact.

IV.
We are good
corporate citizens
We bear responsibility for society and ensure that our
company contributes to sustainable development.
4.1	Communication and marketing
4.2	Political lobbying
4.3	Dealings with public officials
4.4	Donations and social sponsorship
4.5	Taxes and customs
4.6
Data protection
4.7	IT security
4.8
Artificial Intelligence
4.9
Product Compliance
4.10 Environmental protection
4.11 Animal welfare

4.1

Communication and marketing

Political lobbying

We communicate clearly
and respectfully

We represent our company’s positions
in a responsible and transparent way

CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

We ensure that our communication is
clear and consistent in order to maintain
the trust of customers, investors and other
stakeholders. Before committing to and
executing planned communication and
marketing measures, we coordinate them
with the responsible department.
Communication projects with potential
clearing relevance must be reviewed by
the central clearing organization. The
clearing process ensures that Porsche's
communications are consistent ("One Voice
Policy"), that the requirements of capital
market communication as well as ESG and
sustainability communication are taken into
account, and that legal risks are reduced.

MY CONTRIBUTION
I do not issue any public statement on
behalf of my company and always refer
any requests to the communications
department.
If I make any comments at public,
professional or cultural events or on the
internet, I make it clear that I am voicing
solely my own personal opinion.

42

4.2

I consult the company’s social media
guidelines for information on proper
behaviour on social networks.

EXAMPLE
I read a comment on the internet from
someone criticizing sales practices in Asia
and I know the information is completely
unfounded.
Even though I feel compelled to correct the
misrepresentation immediately, I contact
the responsible department, because they
can respond comprehensively and
appropriately to this comment.

As a member of society, we can specifically
incorporate the company’s positions into
decision-making processes, for example in
legislative proposals, within the framework
of political lobbying. We conduct lobbying
centrally and in accordance with the
principles of openness, transparency and
accountability. Neutrality in dealing with
political parties and interest groups is a
matter of course for us. Undue influence
on politics or legislation is not permitted.

MY CONTRIBUTION
I do not make statements on political
developments on behalf of my company
and always refer inquiries to the
responsible political department.
I do not engage third parties (lobbying
agencies) without prior approval from
the responsible department.

If I have been authorized to do so, I will
adhere to the relevant internal guidelines
when carrying out my duties.

EXAMPLE
A relative works at the Ministry of Transport
and has asked me for my opinion on a draft
law that will impact the automotive industry.
He also asks for the company’s position on
this law.
I will not comment on this. Political lobbying
within the company is exclusively coordinated
centrally, conducted openly and transparently.
The authorized contact for such lobbying
activities are the designated politics leads.

I do not attempt to influence political
decisions on behalf of the company unless
I have been authorized to do so.

43

4.3

Dealings with public officials

We exercise caution when dealing
with public officials
CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

EXAMPLE

Due to national and international legislation,
there is an increased risk of corruption when
dealing with public officials.

The guests invited to a full-day event
include a university professor, who has
been asked to give a lecture. I am thinking
about what I need to consider here. Among
other things, my department would like
to invite the guests to lunch at an upscale
restaurant.

Benefits such as invitations and gifts to
public officials are prohibited and are only
permitted in exceptional cases with the
approval of the responsible Compliance
Helpdesk. Our internal benefits policy provides further information.
In particular, we do not make facilitation
or expediting payments, i.e., payments to
public officials to expedite routine official
actions.

I am involving the responsible
Compliance Helpdesk, as a visit to an
upscale restaurant may be inappropriate
and therefore inadmissible.

MY CONTRIBUTION
I am aware that there is an increased risk
of corruption when dealing with public
officials. Therefore, I familiarize myself
with the applicable rules. I always involve
the responsible Compliance Helpdesk
when dealing with public officials.

45

4.4

Donations and social sponsorship

4.5

We commit to society in many ways

We meticulously observe tax
and customs regulations

CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

MY CONTRIBUTION

CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

We make donations, i.e., voluntary
contributions without anything in return,
and sponsorships, i.e., contributions based
on a contractually agreed return for social
purposes with the aim of positively shaping
our reputation and public perception.

If I consider a particular sponsorship or
donation worthy of support, I will contact
the company’s responsible public relations
department in advance.

As a global company, we are aware of
our social responsibility to meet our
obligations with regard to foreign trade,
taxes and customs, and we explicitly
endorse compliance with national and
international legislation.

To avoid conflicts of interest and to ensure
consistent conduct within the company,
donations and sponsorships are only
permitted within the respective legal
framework and in accordance with the
applicable internal regulations.
Donations and sponsorships are only
granted in accordance with a transparent
approval process. We grant monetary and
in-kind donations for scientific, charitable,
cultural or religious purposes related to
culture, the environment, science and
research, education, sports, and
charitable causes.
Donations are only given to institutions
that are politically neutral and recognized
as charitable or tax privileged. Donations
to political parties, party-affiliated institutions or politicians are not permitted.

46

Taxes and customs

The granting of donations must be
transparent, meaning the purpose, the
donation recipient, the donation receipt
and the financial processing must be
documented and verifiable. I comply with
internal processes and frameworks and do
not initiate donations that could damage
our company’s reputation.

EXAMPLE
A local politician is asking me for a
monetary donation from the company
for his election campaign.
I am forwarding the request to the
responsible public relations department.
Donations may only be granted after the
required approval process has been
completed. In this specific case, the
donation cannot be approved because an
internal policy prohibits donations to
political parties, party-affiliated
institutions or politicians.

MY CONTRIBUTION
I design internal structures and processes
so that the taxes and customs to be paid
by the respective Group companies are
accurately, promptly and fully, are disclosed
in reporting, and are paid to the relevant
fiscal authorities.
If I have information concerning violations
of tax and customs regulations in my
area of responsibility, I will take every
action I can to prevent or remedy these
violations. I will contact the responsible
contact persons in the tax and customs
department.

EXAMPLE
I am responsible for posting certain
business transactions, for example general
overheads such as maintenance expenses,
and production costs, in the statutory
financial statements. One project exceeds
certain controlling parameters early in the
financial year. I therefore receive
instructions to record maintenance
expenses, even though the transactions
unquestionably relate to an investment and
must therefore be treated as capitalized
production costs.
I post the entry in line with legal
requirements. All business transactions
must be recorded in accordance with
commercial and tax law regulations because
these accounting records form the basis for
tax returns. Accounting errors could
therefore result in incorrect tax returns
and lead to serious consequences under
tax and customs law for the company and
the responsible employees.

47

4.6

Data protection

We handle personal data carefully

	

CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

MY CONTRIBUTION

We attach great importance to handling
personal data responsibly, securely and
transparently.

I handle personal data confidentially and
act clearly and transparently.

We collect, process, use, and store
personal data only in accordance with
legal requirements.
We protect the personal data of, for
example, customers, employees –
including former employees or
applicants – and partners such as
suppliers and development partners.

I consider that the collection, storage,
processing and other use of personal data
may only take place with the consent of
the person concerned, with a contractual
agreement or with another legal basis.
If in doubt, I contact my supervisor or the
responsible data protection office.
EXAMPLE
I have organized a seminar with customers
for Porsche and received the participant’s
personal data. A colleague from sales
asked me to share their addresses for
marketing purposes.
The data can only be used for marketing
purposes with the customer's consent.
If this consent is not obtained, the data
cannot be shared for this purpose. Data
may generally only be used for the purpose
for which it was collected. If further use
of the data for marketing purposes is
intended, prior consultation with the data
protection department is required.

48

4.7

IT security

4.8

W
 e secure our IT systems

We handle AI responsibly

CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

MY CONTRIBUTION

CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

MY CONTRIBUTION

We pay attention to IT security and adhere
to the applicable information security
regulations.

I familiarize myself with the applicable
information security regulations and adhere
the guidelines set forth therein.

We ensure the responsible and legally
compliant use of artificial intelligence (AI).

I always comply with legal and internal
requirements when using AI.

These regulations provide guidelines for
different employment groups and are relevant for all employees.

I am aware that unencrypted data exchange
(e.g., via email or USB stick) is not a secure
means of communication.

All applications and technologies based on
AI are developed, placed on the market, or
used in compliance with applicable legal
regulations as well as internal specifications
and guidelines.

I proactively inform myself about this
topic and, if necessary, continue my
training through internal training courses.

I am taking part in IT security training
courses.

EXAMPLE
I am traveling and receive a USB stick at
a meeting to exchange a document.
I only use data storage devices or systems
provided by Porsche for data exchange and
act in accordance with the information
classification guidelines. I have the
document sent to me via email, for example.
I never open emails or their attachments
that seem suspicious to me or that I receive
from strangers; this prevents malware from
entering the company network.

50

Artificial Intelligence

We ensure that the use of AI is consistent
with corporate values and is designed in a
legally compliant manner. We promote trust
in AI and AI literacy among employees.

If I have any questions or uncertainties
regarding the use of AI, I will contact the
central AI Office team at
PAG_AI_Office@porsche.de or the
responsible contact person in my Group
company.

EXAMPLE
I would like to further increase the efficiency
of my team's development processes and use
an AI system for this purpose. The objective
is to revise and standardize the specification
requirements based on data sets from
completed development projects.
Before the new AI system is deployed, it must
be reviewed by the central AI Office. This is the
only way to ensure that the AI system can be
used in compliance with the law.

51

4.9

Product Compliance

4.10 Environmental protection

We inspire the world with
our products
CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

MY CONTRIBUTION

CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

MY CONTRIBUTION

We give high priority to the conformity
and safety of our products. The Porsche
Group is responsible for ensuring that risks
to health, safety, the environment, and
assets of our customers or third parties
resulting from the use of these products
are excluded where possible.

I carefully comply with all relevant regulations
in my day-to-day work. I set realistic goals. If
there is a conflict, the conformity and safety
of our products always have top priority,
regardless of time or cost pressure. This is
the reason why I embrace our defined
processes and continuously improve them.
We jointly identify and close gaps in
processes to fulfil all binding obligations.
I contact my supervisor or the responsible
department for the Product Compliance Management System should I have any
questions or concerns about product
compliance.

Porsche aims to help shape the sustainable future of mobility. This includes
products that were developed taking
sustainability aspects into account, as
well as its self-image as a modern, socially
open employer and reliable business
partner. We focus on advanced and efficient technologies, which we implement
throughout the entire lifecycle of our
products. From the very early phases of
development and production onward, we
make sure we manage natural resources
carefully, reduce the environmental impact,
and comply with environmental protection
laws and regulations.

I am mindful of environmental protection
in my work and use resources and energy
economically and efficiently.

Our products are developed and produced
in compliance with legal requirements
and other binding obligations as well as
extensive safety requirements to meet the
expectations of our customers at all times.
This is ensured systematically through
established structures and stable
processes. Even after their release to
the market, products are continuously
monitored in the field so that appropriate
measures can be initiated promptly in the
event of possible discrepancies. We do not
make any compromises in this regard.

EXAMPLE
I notice that several safety belts were not
installed correctly and that the tightening
torque of the screws is not adequately documented in the work instructions. This leads to
inconsistent assembly quality.
I will immediately report the incident to the
responsible employees and my supervisor
so that necessary measures can be initiated.
This entails clarifying the situation, deciding
on potential field measures and updating the
work instructions with the correct torque rate
of the screws.

52

We take a holistic approach to environmental
protection and sustainability

Furthermore, we constantly reassess the
environmental compatibility of products
and manufacturing processes, optimizing
these where necessary.
We are committed as a responsible member of society and a partner for politics.
We seek dialog with both on future mobility concepts and on shaping ecologically
sustainable development.

I make sure my activities have the smallest
possible impact on the environment and
that they comply with environmental
protection laws and regulations.

EXAMPLE
I notice that a tank in one of the halls is
leaking and that large quantities of fluid
used in the production process are spilling
onto the floor. No one else seems to have
noticed the leak. I am concerned that the
entire tank could drain off.
I don't count on anyone else reporting
the leak. Therefore, I inform one of the
employees in charge immediately and
draw attention to the problem.

53

4.11 Animal Welfare

We respect the welfare of animals,
especially farm animals
CORPORATE PRINCIPLE

MY CONTRIBUTION

EXAMPLE

We adhere to nationally and internationally
applicable legal standards on animal protection and welfare, as well as recognized
frameworks that define ethical principles in
this regard.

I am vigilant about violations of animal
welfare that occur in my professional environment or that I become aware of in my
professional context.

I am responsible for purchasing leather. I
receive a report that a supplier's production
facility uses leather from abused and sick
animals.

If I have any indications of animal welfare
violations in my professional environment,
I will inform my supervisor, the sustainability
team in the procurement department at
sustainability-procurement@porsche.de, or
the contacts listed in the Support section.

I will inform my supervisor, the sustainability
team in the procurement department at
sustainability-procurement@porsche.de,
or the contacts listed in the Support section.

We also expect our business partners to
follow these regulations, in particular the
Five Freedoms for assessing animal welfare:
•
•
•
•
•

54

 Freedom from hunger, thirst,
and malnutrition
 Freedom from discomfort
 Freedom from pain, injury and disease
 Freedom from fear and distress
 Freedom to express (most) normal
behaviour

Support
We offer support in dealing with the
Code of Conduct.
REPORTING VIOLATIONS AND
WHISTLEBLOWER SYSTEM

ADHERENCE AND CONTACT
Our Code of Conduct provides the binding
framework for acting with integrity and
in compliance within the Porsche Group.
As employees, we have a responsibility
to familiarize ourselves with the Code
of Conduct and adhere to it in order to
prevent violations and avoid damage to the
company.
We investigate violations of laws and internal policies. Depending on the severity of
the violation, this can have consequences
under employment, civil or criminal law for
the employees concerned. Proven misconduct can affect compensation.

support employees in acting lawfully and
with integrity. They must ensure that
employees are familiar with and comply
with the Code of Conduct. The HR department and employee representatives also
provide support.
We can also contact the company’s Compliance Officer or the responsible Compliance
Helpdesk at any time:

In case of questions or uncertainties about
the Code of Conduct, our supervisors are
the first point of contact. Supervisors

The whistleblower system is responsible for
receiving and processing tips of potential
violations by Porsche Group employees.
Violations are intentional or negligent
infringements of applicable law (e.g., laws,
ordinances, etc.) or internal company regulations, in particular violations of the Code
of Conduct and infringements of duties
and obligations pursuant to employment
contracts by Porsche Group employees
committed in connection with or on the
occasion of their work for the Porsche
Group.

Every tip-off is handled confidentially,
neutrally, and fairly. Identified violations
are remedied promptly and appropriately
sanctioned.
Employees do not have to fear any consequences under employment law or other
disadvantages from Porsche for submitting
tips. Whistleblowers and those affected are
particularly protected by a fair and transparent process. Any misuse of the whistleblower system constitutes a violation and
will be sanctioned accordingly.

To submit a tip, the internal whistleblower
office and external lawyers (so-called
ombudspersons) are available through various reporting channels.

Contact details of the central Compliance Helpdesk:
Phone: +49 (0)711 911 24860
E-mail: compliance@porsche.de

56

57

We can access the Whistleblower System
through the following channels:
Contact details of the Whistleblower Office:

Contact details of the ombudspersons:

E-mail:

whistleblower-office@porsche.de

Internet: https://www.ombudsmen-of-volkswagen.com

Post:

Dr. Ing. h.c. F. Porsche AG
GR - Legal and Compliance, Whistleblower Office
Porscheplatz 1
70435 Stuttgart, Germany

Experienced external lawyers act as neutral mediators (ombudspersons) for us.
As legal counsel, they are tasked with receiving reports about possible infringements of laws, internal rules or other conduct damaging to the Porsche Group.

In person: Please make an appointment in advance by writing an e-mail to
whistleblower-office@porsche.de
Online reporting channel: https://goto.speakup.report/porsche
You can submit your report in over 65 languages (also anonymously)
via a web-based reporting channel.

Voice intake by phone:
Dial the phone number for the country that you are located in (Germany: 0800 1818 952) and
enter the organizational code 122270. The Whistleblower Office will receive a transcript of your
voice recording. Please find a list with relevant telephone numbers on our website.

Further information on the whistleblower system, including data protection, can be
found on the internet at www.porsche.com/international/aboutporsche/overview/
compliance/whistleblower-system.

SpeakUp App:
Scan the QR code and download the app “SpeakUp” by People Intouch
(personal devices only). Enter the organizational code 122270, then
speak or type your message for us.

58

59

Contact details of the central Compliance Helpdesk
Phone: +49 (0)711 911 24860
E-mail: compliance@porsche.de

Contact details of the Whistleblower System
Phone: +49 (0) 800 1818 952
(Organization code 122270)
E-mail: whistleblower-office@porsche.de
Online: www.porsche.com/whistleblower-system

Contact details of the Ombudspersons
Online: https://www.ombudsmen-of-volkswagen.com

Dr. Ing. h.c. F. Porsche AG
GR – Legal and Compliance
Porscheplatz 1
70435 Stuttgart
Germany
Version 5.0 | January 2026
For public use

