Press release

Andrés Saborido, new CEO of Wayra
•

Telefónica' s corporate venture capital is entering a new phase in which it will strengthen its
alignment with the Group's new strategy, as well as positioning itself as an open innovation
partner for corporations and public and private institutions.

Madrid, February 4, 2026. – Telefónica today announced the appointment of Andrés Saborido
as the new CEO of Wayra, the company’s corporate venture capital and its open innovation
platform. A member of Wayra's founding team, he assumes the position with the aim of
reinforcing Wayra's ambition to consolidate itself as a catalyst for innovation, growth and
technological deployment on a global scale.
In the context of this new phase, Wayra will seek to strengthen its alignment with Telefónica's
new strategy, 'Transform & Grow'. To this end, it will prioritise investments with a direct impact
on internal innovation and the business and will concentrate its activity on key markets and
technologies for the Group, with a focus on cybersecurity, Artificial Intelligence, networks and
communications and user experience. Wayra will also strengthen its position as an open
innovation partner for corporations and public and private institutions.
Saborido who has a degree in Business Administration and a specialization in Technology and
New Business from the National University of La Plata, launched the operation of Wayra
Argentina in 2011 and has led, since 2014, Wayra Spain. As Global COO, he was responsible
for Wayra's direct investment activity in Brazil, Spain, the United Kingdom and Germany; the
Innovation Services business; and the open innovation activity for the development of the
business between startups and Telefónica. In addition, he has driven the growth of seed
investment ecosystems in Latin America and Europe, has participated in more than 300
investment agreements and has collaborated with entrepreneurs from multiple geographies.
He was recognized as one of the Young Ibero-American Leaders by the Carolina Foundation,
and in 2021 GCV Institute named him Global Corporate Venturing Emerging Leader.
Portfolio of more than 520 startups
Since its inception in 2011, Wayra has invested in approximately 1,200 startups, of which more
than 520 remain active in its portfolio and 218 continue to collaborate with Telefónica, jointly
generating a turnover of more than 700 million euros. In addition, this activity has directly
contributed to the strengthening of local entrepreneurship ecosystems supported by a
cumulative investment of more than 260 million euros.
Telefónica thanks Irene Gómez for her leadership and commitment over the years, in which she
has contributed decisively to the evolution and consolidation of Wayra as a benchmark in
corporate venture capital and open innovation. His work has been key to strengthening the
company's strategic positioning and its impact on the entrepreneurial ecosystem.

Telefónica, S.A.
Corporate Communications
Email: prensatelefonica@telefonica.com
telefonica.com/es/sala-comunicacion/
This document is classified as PUBLIC by TELEFÓNICA.
This document is classified as PUBLIC by TELEFÓNICA.

1

