Innovation Challenge Proposal
Cover Page
Project name:
Country/countries:
Lead organisation name:
Lead organisation category (For-Profit / Non-Profit):
Lead organisation company registered ID:
Registered business address of lead organisation:
Lead organisation website:
Project point of contact name:
Project point of contact email:
Project point of contact phone number:
Amount requested (USD):
Minimum viable amount (USD):
Shocks/stresses addressed:
Project start and end date:
Thematic Innovation Challenge(s): e.g. RAIN, RISE, TECH4Nature,
TECH4Emergencies
Project supporting partners
If applicable, please list all project supporting partners (include the name, country of
origin, and website (if applicable) of each organisation).
Name Organisation Country Website
Project Summary
Describe the problem, the innovation/solution proposed and the expected impact. If
applicable, please attach the Business Plan and supplementary materials as Annexes.\nProblem Statement
Show understanding of context by clearly describing the problem you address. Your
problem statement should include a narrative that describes a locally-driven
understanding of the underlying problem and the barrier(s). It should address these
topics/questions:
● What are the critical and unaddressed barriers to what you propose? What
evidence substantiates this assessment?
● Resilience of what (for example household, community, ecosystem, city)?
● Resilience to what (the shocks and stresses addressed)?
● Resilience for whom (at least 50 percent of people supported must be women or
youth)?
Solution Statement
How will you address the challenge with your solution? Your solution statement should
be your response to the Problem Statement, and should highlight the ways in which your
solution is innovative in building resilience. It should address these topics/questions:
● What is your proposed solution? Give us your elevator pitch.
● Demonstrate the need and demand for innovation: why is this better than the
status quo?
● Does it offer a clear advantage over existing solutions in the target context?
● What is the current state of the solution, what will you implement as part of this
funding?
2\nThematic Challenge Alignment
Building on your application, describe in more depth how your solution delivers against
the Thematic Innovation Challenge(s) you applied to. Do not simply repeat your
application text; provide the specific detail reviewers need to assess thematic fit.
Respond to the prompts for your challenge window below:
● RAIN (Rural): Explain your nature-positive contribution (how you go beyond
reducing harm to actively restore ecosystems, enhance biodiversity, increase
carbon sequestration and/or strengthen sustainable natural resource
management); how your solution improves food security, livelihoods and resilience
for rural communities; and your rural transformation potential.
● RISE (Urban): Explain how your solution responds to the realities of living and
working in informal urban contexts (gaps in housing, infrastructure, services,
finance or economic opportunity); which challenge priorities you address (access
to jobs and services, cost-effective and scalable retrofit solutions, cleaner and
cheaper informal urban transport, and/or urban nature-based solutions); and your
urban transformation potential.
● TECH: State clearly whether your solution addresses TECH4Emergencies (AI to
address and mitigate extreme climate events in emergencies and/or strengthen
Anticipatory Action frameworks) or TECH4Nature (AI, digital technology, remote
sensing, data systems or other technologies to protect, restore or better manage
nature). Explain the value proposition of AI and the technical specifications of your
solution, describe your use case, and evidence your technical and sector expertise.
3\nTeam
Please list your project team, including name, organisation, email, and project role.
Name Organisation Email Role (Identify lead
contact and alternate
lead)
Team narrative: provide a narrative description of the team and how you work together.
4\nWork Plan
Outline the project’s expected deliverables and activities needed to complete them
(providing details about the approaches used in each activity), and the due by date. If you
have requested USD 50,000, mark with an asterisk (*) any activities and deliverables that
would not be delivered at the USD 25,000 level.
Activity Deliverable Due date
Add activities and rows as needed.
Work plan narrative: Please provide a narrative description of the work plan. Differentiate
between the proposed work plan at $25,000 versus the proposed work plan at $50,000.
5\nResults reporting
Potential for impact: briefly describe the potential scale and scope of the social and
environmental benefits of the proposed solution. Address the following:
● Does the proposed solution show potential for improving the resilience of the
most vulnerable people and places?
● Does it show potential for long term impact, either by itself or as part of something
larger? Is the route to impact clearly described and realistic?
Then set your end of project targets against applicable GRP and project-specific
indicators in the table below.
6\nGRP and project-specific indicators
Set targets against applicable GRP and project-specific indicators. All grantees are
required to set targets for GRP indicators CORE 1 (people supported) and CORE 2
(Investments mobilised). Other indicators are required as applicable, meaning it is required
to report progress if activities lead to indicator results, and it is feasible to collect data
against them. GRP indicator guidance can be found here. The GRP Monitoring, Evaluation
and Learning (MEL) team can guide appropriate data collection methodologies (see for
more info the GRP MEL plan here). Note: CORE 1 targets must ensure that at least 50
percent of people supported are women or youth. Please set end of project targets for
both funding levels (USD 25,000 and USD 50,000) in the columns below.
Target Target Narrative (including
Indicator
Indicator name at USD at USD data source and
Code
25,000 50,000 methods)
CORE1 People
supported by
GRP
CORE2 Investments
mobilised
(USD)
Add indicators and rows as needed.
Please provide an overview of the planned monitoring and evaluation activities.
Summarise how the project will be managed for results and how evidence on progress
against the selected indicators is generated. Outline the data collection process and
methods used to analyse results.
7\nScaling Pathway and Additionality
Describe your pathway to scale beyond this 12 month grant. Address the following:
● What does a scaled version of your solution look like, and what is the scalable
model behind it?
● What evidence is there of interest and demand among users, customers or
stakeholders?
● What is your credible pathway to adoption, uptake or replication beyond the initial
project, including the partners, channels or policy engagement required?
● How does this grant achieve clear additionality beyond existing activities, provide
synergies with existing work, and avoid displacing other funding?
● What are your indicative scaling targets (for example people reached or
investments mobilised) two to three years beyond the project?
Sustainability, Profitability and Exit
Describe how the solution is sustained after the grant. Address the following:
● What is your path to financial sustainability or profitability, including your business
model? For-profit applicants should set out revenue generation and the estimated
break-even point.
● What is your current fundraising status and track record, and which funders or
investors do you intend to engage?
● What is your exit strategy, and what scope is there for policy engagement or
institutional uptake?
● How does the project demonstrate value for money over time, including social,
environmental or economic benefits at scale?
8\nRisks
Please describe the key risks with respect to your project and how you intend to mitigate or
reduce the potential impact of these risks on implementation. NOTE: GRP encourages
innovative projects and innovation by its nature often involves risks. What matters is that
you have identified the potential risks and have/will put plans in place to try and manage
these risks.
Description Impact (High/ Probability (High/ Mitigation strategies
Medium/ Low) Medium/ Low)
Budget
- Please complete the budget (USD) template, which can be found here (update the
budget you submitted during application)
- Only budget for the funds from GRP.
- This is also the document you will use while reporting at the end of the project.
- The budget should be sufficiently detailed to assess against expected results or
planned activities. The budget shall be possible to follow up on. Add budget notes
or columns/rows to explain relevant cost category quantities not apparent from the
results framework or project/programme plan, e.g. number/seniority of staff.
- If applicable, ensure the amount of funds that will be forwarded to Implementing
Partners is outlined.
- Please include in your budget estimated costs for travel and per diem costs for the
attendance of the GRP Induction Workshop.
9