BIOECONOMY PRODUCTS OF THE BRAZILIAN AMAZON

Boosting the forest-friendly entrepreneurial ecosystem
Amazon Investors Coalition
Earth Innovation Institute
BRAZIL, APRIL 2023

1. INTRODUCTION

4

2. MOST RELEVANT PRODUCTS OF THE BIOECONOMY OF THE BRAZILIAN AMAZON

9

2.1 AÇAI (Euterpe Oleracea) – ACAI-FRUIT

9

2.2 AÇAÍ (Euterpe oleracea) – AÇAÍ-PALM HEART

14

2.3 ANDIROBA (Carapa guianensis) - ANDIROBA OIL

18

2.4 BABAÇU (Attalea speciosa Mart. ex Spreng) – BABASSU OIL

22

2.5 BACURI (Platonia insignis)

27

2.6 BORRACHA NATURAL (Hevea brasilensis) - NATURAL RUBBER

32

2.7 BURITI (Mauritia flexuosa) – BURUTI - FIBER

36

2.8 CACAU (Theobroma cacao) – COCOA-ALMONDS

42

2.9 CASTANHA DO BRASIL (Bertholletia excelsa HBK) - BRAZIL NUTS

46

2.10 CUMARU (Dipteryx odorata) – CUMARU'S SEED

50

2.11 CUPUAÇU (Theobroma grandiflorum)

54

2.12 MURUMURU (Astrocaryum murumuru)

58

2.13 COPAÍBA (Copaifera spp.) - COPAIBA OIL

63

2.14 DENDÊ (Elaeis guineensis) - OIL PALM

67

2.15 PATAUÁ (Oenocarpus bataua Mart.)

71

2.16 PIMENTA DO REINO (Piper nigrum L.) - BLACK PEPPER

75

2.17 PIRARUCU (Arapaima spp.)

79

2.18 PUPUNHA (Bactris gasipaes)

83

2.19 TAMBAQUI (Colossoma macroponum)

87

2.20 TAPEREBÁ (Spondias mombin L.)

91

2.21 URUCUM (Bixa orellana) - ANNATTO

95

3

1. INTRODUCTION
This report presents the results of a study of Amazon products, forest and aquatic, that
have the potential to provide the economic base for the development of the Amazon
bioeconomy. The focus is on the sustainable development of the Amazon’s
sociobiodiversity, a concept which seeks to capture both the ecological biodiversity of
the Amazon rainforest biome, and the local, technical and scientific knowledge of
traditional and indigenous peoples, scientists and professionals who are essential to
developing an Amazon bioeconomy.
This document aims to serve as a catalog to help “wikify” market data on priority
Amazon forest/farm/fish opportunities that restore ecological and food systems and
benefit source communities (a living crowd-sourced information highway). Towards
this end the research team has developed summaries of available information on 21
“bioeconomy products.”
One issue, also noted in a key TNC 2021 report, was the difficulty finding data on the
production and commercialization of all but a few Amazon products. In this connection,
the TNC report presents a useful classification of the products based on the economic
importance of the product, production and market trends, and the available data.
The TNC classifications are: 1: Products with increasing production among the most
Important (7). 2: Products with stagnant or declining production but among the most
Important (3). 3: Promising products with low production but positive trends in growth
(4). 4: Products without information about scale or growth (16)
This classification system shows that of the 30 most relevant products for the Amazon
bioeconomy, there are little or no data on the production, supply chains or markets of
more than half of them (TNC 2021).
Our experience confirms this observation. These products are largely invisible to the
government and to the formal economy because there is no quantitative information
that can be evaluated and compared with information on other products. There is little
or no official record of how or where and in what quantities they are produced or
collected, processed, traded and consumed. Consequently, there is virtually no
quantitative information to provide a basis for investment decision-making.
With a few exceptions, the list we produced is almost identical to that included in the
TNC report, which reflects the fact that these are, more or less the best-known
products of the Brazilian Amazon. There are many others, which may someday gain
prominence. There are also many other important forest products in the Panamazon
countries not included in this report, such as those from Bolivia, Peru, and Colombia.
One other aspect of our classification is the potential of a product to drive the
transition towards a low emission development trajectory, a fundamental objective of
a bioeconomic development strategy. Here the question is, of the 30+ most promising
Amazon products, which have the potential to drive the transition to an Amazon
bioeconomy that not only values the conservation of the Amazon forest, but is also
able to reduce and eventually halt Amazon deforestation? This consideration is missing
from the prevailing discussion of an Amazon bioeconomy. Instead, the explicit
assumption seems to be that the transition to a bioeconomy based on these and other

4

forest products will be achieved through a combination of government enforcement of
the Forest Code, suppression of illegal deforestation and the growing value of the
forest driven by investment in developing markets for forest and agroforestry products.
Presumably, this will encourage farmers to reduce investment in large scale extensive
production strategies such as beef and grains, and shift investment towards
forest-based productions systems such as agroforestry, silvopasture and forest
management. Here the issue is not if that’s possible, but given our experience thus far,
how long will it realistically take, and how much more forest will be lost before it
succeeds in stopping Amazon deforestation and forest degradation.
In our portfolio of bioeconomy products, we have included two fish species - tambaqui
for aquaculture and pirarucu for managed fisheries. Aquaculture uses only about 10%
of the area beef requires to produce the same amount of animal protein, while studies
have shown that the productivity of floodplain fisheries increases with forest cover,
10% more forest cover, 10% more fish. If landowners shift from beef to aquaculture
and managed fisheries, they not only reduce pressure on forests, but they can also
convert large areas of pasture to tree and forest-based production systems, while
maintaining and even increasing farm income. In the case of floodplain fisheries, the
positive relationship between forest area and fishing productivity can work as an
incentive to encourage floodplain farmers to reduce investment in low productivity,
extensive cattle ranching and invest in reforestation and forest management instead.
Fish, then, are an example of a potentially transformational product, one that can make
possible a large-scale shift in Amazon land use that eventually eliminates deforestation
as a central challenge to sustainably developing the Amazon.
A key starting point for the project was a one-page list of topics that should be covered
in a two-page summary. In the end the average is closer to four pages as we added a
few other topics on environmental and social issues associated with each product.
Another reason for the length, is ironically, the difficulty of finding the precise
information necessary to succinctly describe each product. Finally, regarding our
approach in this report. We are not trying to sell these products. Rather, we seek to
present an objective assessment of each product, including those points that an
investor should be aware of in deciding whether or not to take a deeper look.
Another important point is that, by definition, this is a work in progress. It is intended
as a first step in developing a wiki-catalog of bioeconomy products for those interested
in investing in an Amazon bioeconomy. It is not intended to be a definitive source. Our
aim is to provide those interested in developing the potential of Amazon forest
products, with some useful basic information to help them decide if they want to dig
deeper and learn more about a product or move on to another one. The intent is to get
the ball rolling and hope that others will jump in to build on these initial summaries.
Here we are fortunate to have the examples and experience of Wikipedia and many
other wiki-related initiatives. If we are successful in attracting volunteers to this effort,
then we can begin to think seriously of the next steps involved.
The products included here are not easily placed in one or another use categories.
Many have various uses in the traditional economy and researchers discover new uses
as they learn more about the chemical compositions and potential applications in our
modern industrial economy. Very roughly, there are 13 products primarily used as a
food, 12 that are primarily used for the oil in their seeds and or pulp and at least 2 that

5

are materials. Many of those classified as food or oil are used for both and several of
these also produce useful fibers. This simple categorization does not do justice to the
wide variety of current and potential uses these products have. These are some of the
products that are important in the economic life and food security of Amazon people.
The four members of the team involved in this project, have different backgrounds and
professional experience, but all have lived and worked in the Brazilian Amazon for
several decades in areas that overlap with the objectives of this project. As a result of
our experience, we all know a lot about a few of these products and at least a little
about all of them. From here on, we hope that those who do know a lot about some of
these products feel motivated to contribute their knowledge to correcting our errors,
and omissions, and producing more accurate and useful summaries of the potential of
these and other Amazon products.

6

Assessing the Performance of Key Dimensions of Bioeconomic Development
To overcome the absence of data, a key objective of the project is to develop a rating
system that can help investors identify which products are most compatible with the
principles of a bioeconomy that seeks to sustainably develop the forest and aquatic
resources of the Amazon. Here the difficulty is the multi-dimensional nature and often
incommensurability of the different attributes that must be taken into account in
developing a ranking system. Given the absence of data, such a system must
necessarily be largely qualitative and should also not seek to reduce the attributes of a
product to a single letter. Instead, we opted for a qualitative assessment of the
products based on their performance on the major dimensions/ attributes of each
product from a bioeconomy perspective.
Bioeconomy producers, investors and entrepreneurs are encouraged to consider the
following criteria as a lens to A) Make assessments about product development
opportunities, and B) Identify indicators for tracking economic, social, and
environmental impact.
A. Economic Assessments and Indicators
A1. Generation of employment and income: Potential for increasing employment and
incomes in the short to medium term, substantially improving the quality of life of a
significant proportion of the Amazon population.
A2. Time to reach scale: The amount of time required for the scale of activity involved
in the production, processing and marketing of the product to have a significant impact
on the Amazon bioeconomy.
A3. Level of Infrastructure Investment: The level of investment in supply chain
infrastructure required to modernize the entire supply chain so that it can efficiently
deliver an economically significant quantity of high quality product to markets.
B. Social Assessments and Indicators
B1. Shift to more equitable agrarian structure: Products that can be efficiently
produced individually, or as part of multi-species production systems, at a scale that
can lead to significant reductions in land concentration favoring small and medium
scale producers.
B2. Support Indigenous and Traditional People: Products that directly support local
development that significantly improve the livelihoods of indigenous and traditional
peoples and can help them fulfill their aspirations.
B3. Beneficial for smallholders: Products that can be produced at a scale and with the
level of capital investment available to smallholders and enable them to significantly
improve their quality of life.
C. Environment Assessments and Indicators
C1. Conservation of biodiversity: Products that can be produced through economic
strategies that conserve biodiversity and the forest and aquatic systems that they are
part of.
C2. Forest Code & Ecosystem Function Compliance: Products that can be produced
without coming into conflict with the forest code (20% of property may be cleared and

7

80% must be in natural forest or tree-based productions), ensuring the integrity of
hydrological processes and the role of the forest in maintaining the precipitation
regime that sustains the Amazon ecosystem.
C3. Transformational: Potential for significantly reducing the rate of deforestation and
driving development of the Amazon bioeconomy.

8

Preliminary Observations
Through the process of collecting information on the products presented here, we have
identified a number of concerns regarding the proposal of building an Amazon
bioeconomy based on developing the potential of the Amazon’s sociobiodiversity.
1.Throughout the last century one trend that has been observed is that the Amazon
basin has few, if any, comparative advantages in developing the economic potential of
the basin’s biodiversity or sociobiodiversity. For example, Southeastern Brazil,
especially the Atlantic Forest has similar agronomic conditions with far better
infrastructure and access to markets.
2. Rather than comparative advantages, the Amazon region has comparative
disadvantages, which include the presence of diseases that affect promising Amazon
species, such as the rubber tree (leaf blight) and cocoa (witches broom). It has
inadequate or nonexistent supply chain infrastructure for efficiently interacting with
markets. And, the technological capacity for developing the potential of Amazon
products is also limited when compared to other areas of Brazil and elsewhere in the
world.
3. Most of the products we have included here have multiple sub-products and uses
that can be developed to capture their full potential.
4. As noted earlier, there is little quantitative information available on the production,
harvesting and processing of these products, nor is there much data on the size and
potential of the markets where they are consumed. Consequently, a first task in
developing a bioeconomy based on the products of Amazon sociobiodiversity will be
the collection and analysis of information that is needed to develop the potential of
thee products.
5. Finally, far too many of these products are still harvested by relatively poor families
using simple and inefficient technology. The products still pass through rudimentary
value chains to reach modern markets where they are valued in millions and even
billions of dollars. There is a real danger that the Amazon bioeconomy will help to
make wealthy regions of the world wealthier while having little positive impact on the
Amazon peoples who make this wealth possible.

9

2. MOST RELEVANT PRODUCTS OF THE BIOECONOMY OF THE BRAZILIAN AMAZON
2.1 AÇAI (Euterpe Oleracea) – ACAI-FRUIT
The açaí palm is native to the Brazilian Amazon and occurs throughout the delta and inner
estuary of the Amazon River, as well as, on the floodplain of the Amazon River, especially
along the lower portions of streams flowing into the Amazon floodplain. A beverage made
from the pulp of the acai berry is an important food for local people while higher quality acai
is also much appreciated by middle and upper class consumers. Because of its anti-oxidant
qualities it has become a popular beverage for health and fitness advocates throughout the

world.
PRODUCTS
The main product is the pulp of the acai berry, which is used to produce a nonalcoholic
beverage called “açaí wine” (vinho de açai), the most common form of consumption in the
Amazon region. Numerous other products are derived from the pulp and seeds as well as the
growing core of the palm (palm heart). The fruit pulp is used to produce a variety of other
products such as liquors, jellies, sweets, fillings, ice cream and cremes; the seeds are
processed into flour and mixed with bread dough and are used in civil construction, the seed
can be transformed into a sludge used in the production of cosmetics and the fibers also
have a wide variety of uses.
CURRENT MARKET SIZE
The global acai berry market was valued at US$ 4.99 Bn. in 2021 (MMR, 2023). In 2021
Brazilian production of açaí totaled 507,583mt, 55% from cultivated plants and 45% from
managed açaí stands (IBGE, 2017, 2021). The state of Pará is the largest producer with 78%
of total production (396.249t). The second largest producer is Amazonas with 13% of
Brazilian production. Pará is also responsible for 94% of Brazil's açaí exports, which grew by
14,380% in the last 10 years, from 41mt in 2010 to 5,937mt 2020 (IBGE, 2017, 2020;
CONEXSUS, 2021, ABRAFRUTAS, 2023; IJAERS 2021).
PROJECTED FUTURES MARKET SIZE

10

The global acai berry market is expected to grow by 11.5% per year between 2022 and 2029
to reach nearly US$ 11.93 Billion (MMR, 2023).
VOLUMES SOLD/CONSUMED
Of total production in the state of Pará, 60% is consumed in the state, 35% goes to other
regions of Brazil and 5% is exported. Exports totaled 56.6 tons in 2020 ($252,333). The main
consumer countries (besides Brazil), were the USA (40% of the açaí exported), Japan (236 t 2021 and Australia (194t - 2017-2018) (FSC, 2020; CONEXSUS, 2021).
PRICE TREND
In 2023, wholesale prices on the internet for frozen açai pulp ranged from US$ 999.99 for a
35lb bag to US$4,342.58 for a 100kg (NATURAL FOODS, 2023).
Average price per kg of açaí exported in 2020 US$ 4.47 (COMEXSTAT/MDIC, 2023).
HISTORY
Acai as a beverage has been a major element of the diet of ribeirinho populations in the
delta and upper estuary regions of the mouth of the Amazon for centuries. Since the 1970s
acai has been widely consumed by middle and upper income urban populations. In the
1980s and 1990s açai’s reputation as an antioxidant and as an energy drink (high fat content
and virtually zero sugar) led to growing national interest and açai became a popular health
beverage associated with sports and fitness centers. The growth of international demand for
acai developed during the 1990s and 2000s. The export market continues to develop, driving
further transformations in açãi production and processing as research has sought to develop
new products from acai berries for the food, beverage and pharmaceutical industries. See
also (SILVA, 2021; IBGE, 2017, 2020; ABRAFRUTAS, 2023).
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS AND ENVIRONMENT: AGROFORESTRY, WILD HARVESTING,
PLANTING
In recent years, the wild harvest of açaí berries has averaged about 181,290 tons per year
about 38% of total berry production (IBGE, 2020). Traditionally, acai has been cultivated in
house gardens and in agroforests surrounding houses, often mixed with cocoa and cupuaçu
and other useful shrubs and tree species. The 2017 census estimates that there are 165,742
hectares of cultivated acai, including agroforests and more or less pure stands (IBGE, 2017).
The consortium with perennial crops (cupuaçu, cocoa and coffee) makes possible the
planting of forest species to recover and enhance the ecosystem (EMBRAPA, 2022, 2016).
Açaí grows in multi-stemmed clumps making possible management strategies that combine
açaí berry production with culling of some stems when they reach optimal size for palm
heart.
TERM OF MATURITY
The açaí tree begins its fruit production cycle between 3 and 4 years. Flowering occurs during
all months of the year, peaking between February and July. The palm tree can reach up to

11

25m in height and produce three to four bunches per year, with 3 kg to 6 kg of fruit (SEDAP,
2016). Açai palms can continue growing for several decades, but as they get higher
harvesting berries becomes more risky and many producers prefer to harvest palm heart.
PRODUCER PROFILE AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
T Açai production has been largely dominated by small scale producers and local, small scale
intermediaries. In some areas smallholders live and farm on the land of large landowners and
have various shareholding arrangements. As the acai market has developed and demand for
acai has grown incomes have increased, depending on local land tenure arrangements.
Further investment is needed to improve labor productivity so producers and their families
can continue to benefit from the development of the acai economy (FSC, 2020).
PRODUCTION PROBLEMS
Açai palms are vulnerable to a variety of pests and diseases. More research is needed to
identify and find solutions for the most important pests. Child labor is another issue as açai
berry collection has traditionally depended on family labor involving school age children.
Efforts are underway to eliminate this problem and ensure children stay in school (EMBRAPA,
2022; LAMB, 2020).
SUPPLY CHAIN ISSUES
The acai berry is quite perishable and must be processed and refrigerated within 24 hours
and the pulp must be consumed within 24-36 hours of processing to avoid oxidation. For
longer periods the pulp must be frozen or freeze dried. Sanitary issues are mostly associated
with local consumption as contamination of acai pulp occurs primarily in local markets where
processing of pulp is based on artisanal methods and often uses filtered or even unfiltered
water. Sanitation is far less of a problem in acai that is destined for national and international
markets, where water quality and hygiene practices are closely monitored (FSC, 2020).
CREDIT POTENTIAL/CARBON SEQUESTRATION
Açaí has high potential, as an element of agroforestry systems with other perennial species
probiding fruit and timber (MIRANDA et al., 2012).
CERTIFICATION PROGRAMS
CERTIFICATION
ORGANIC BRAZIL

BY-PRODUCTS

COMPANY

Virgin acai oil
Organic farming Europe Pasteurized
(EU)
Organic
Acai
Berry
USDA-ORGANIC
–
Acidified
Acai ECOCERT
Agricultura orgânica nos
Berry
FSC
EUA -USDA NOP
Acai
Biodoversity
Fair for life
area
Acai
and

TYPE
Allows organic commercialization within Brazil;
It allows marketing of organic products in the
European Union, applies to agricultural raw
materials and food products;
Allows marketing of organic products in the
United States;
Social Certification and Fair Trade - Allows the
commercialization of products from Fair trade
worldwide

12
ECO
CERT
ORGANIC

COSMOS prepared
fruit

on

IBD ORGÂNICO
ORGANIC
European
(EC)

FARMING –
Commission

KOSHER – PARVE

HACCP – APCC

Allows the commercialization of organic or
natural cosmetics worldwide;
Guarantees the quality and origin of organic
products
Marketing of organic products that meet the
standards established to the European Union
market;
Ensures that manufactured products meet the
specific standards governing the Orthodox Jewish
food diet
Food safety in the processes regarding risks and
hazards, ensuring the standard of quality,
integrity and safety of the products to consumers

RELEVANT SECTORS
Food and beverage, Nutraceutical and Cosmetic. Demand for organic and sustainable
products: Veganism, Slow food, Superfoods, Indication of doctors, nutritionists and fitness
influencers (FSC, 2020).
Retailers
Retailer
Frutalí
Sambazon do Brasil
Agroindustrial Ltda
Amazon Pulps
Top Açaí Indústria e
Comercio de Polpas
de Frutas Ltda
De Marchi Indústria e
Comercio de Frutas
Ltda
Açaí Tropical Amazon
Ltda

Site
https://www.frutali.com.br/
https://www.sambazon.com.br/
https://organis.org.br/associado/amazon-polpas/
fiscal@gscontadores.com.br

https://www.demarchi.com.br/

https://acai-tropical-amazon.negocio.site/

Acre Fruit Pulps Ltda
Distribuidora Norte do
Açaí
Acai Selfsy
Qprime foods
Petruz Acai

file:///C:/Users/user/Downloads/Cat%C3%A1logo%20Portfolio%20-%20Norte%20do
%20a%C3%A7a%C3%AD%20.pdf
https://www.selfsy.com.br/produtos/acai/
https://qprimeacai.com.br/catalogo/
https://marketing.petruz.com/safra-fabrica-de-acai-para?gclid=CjwKCAjwx7GYBhB7Ei
wA0d8oe1Rua56KRyWWsxzZHAiiNYrW1-uNuw1ZsMG9rQRaUmw0iRZOp-f-7BoCXqg
QAvD_BwE
Acai Town
https://acaitown.com/br/nossos-produtos/
Amazon Oil Ind. and https://www.amazonoil.com.br/
Com.
of
Eireli
Vegetable Oils
Xingu Fruit Pulps of https://www.xingufruit.com.br/
Fruits Industry and
Commerce Ltda

IMPORT/EXPORT AND COMPLIANCE FEES

13

The tariffs will be given according to trade agreements, tariff preferences and legislation
applicable to foreign trade (BRAZIL, 2023).
BIOCULTURAL
PROTECTIONS
PROTOCOL/CGEN/ETC.)

OF

COMMUNITIES

OF

ORIGIN

(NAGOYA

The Brazilian adherence to the Nagoya Protocol, Legislative Decree No. 136 of 08/11/2020,
ratified by the national executive that took place in March 2021, can leverage the production
chain of Açaí due to the use and exploitation of genetic heritage by other countries.
REGULATORY INFORMATION
inci Name: Euterpe Oleracea
Harmonized System Code: 2007.99 - other (20.07 - Jams, jellies, marmalades, fruit purees
and pastes, obtained by cooking, whether or not with added sugar or other sweetening
matter)
NCM: 2007.99.21

14

2.2 AÇAÍ (Euterpe oleracea) – AÇAÍ-PALM HEART
The açaí heart of palm is native to the Amazon rainforest. As the açaí produces multiple
stems, the heart of palm extraction is less aggressive than that of the juçara palm. Farmers
can manage the stands of both, collecting fruit every year and harvesting the stems when
they reach a certain size to take advantage of the high quality heart of palm without affecting
fruit production.

PRODUCTS
The heart of palm is the growing “core” of the palm tree, in the shape of a cylinder, white in
color and with layers of fibers that have a soft and smooth texture. It is considered a
by-product of the açaí tree, exploited after several years collecting the açaí fruit, the main
product. Heart of palm is marketed in natura in regions close to cultivation or canned in a
local cannery. The main ways of commercializing canned goods are: stalk, which prioritizes
the highest quality heart of palm stem (noble); the larger diameter part can be sliced or
minced into small pieces.
CURRENT MARKET SIZE
In the period from 2000 to 2017, Brazil 27,868 mt annually, 3.35% of global production of
831,881 mt. Brazil was one of the 4 major exporting countries behind Ecuador, Costa Rica
and Bolivia. Annuakl Braziliam palm heart production was valued at US$ 108,658,837, 6.11%
of the world total of US$ 1,778,377,038. The main destinations for Brazilian canned heart of
palm, in the period 2000-2017, are: United States, Japan, Lebanon and France
(BITTENCOURT, KC, 2020).
PROJECTED FUTURE MARKET SIZE
Market analysts predict that the volume of Brazilian exports will continue to fall while the
price of heart of palm may rise (TNC, 2022).
VOLUMES SOLD/CONSUMED
In 2021, Brazil produced 114,918 tons of heart of palm, around 4,140 tons from wild stands
and 110,778 tons cultivated system. The total value of Brazilian palm heart was US$

15

58,678,790 (IBGE/EVS, 2021; Silvicultura , IBGE 2021). About 90% of production of Brazilian
production is exported and only about 10% is sold in the domestic market (TNC, 2021).
PRICE TREND
While the amount of heart of palm produced annually is expected to fall, the price of heart
of palm is expected to increase. Price growth, on the other hand, can increase by up to 14%
and should average 8% to 1.4% per year (TNC, 2022). According to UN COMTRADE data
(2019), palm heart had the highest added value (965%) among sociobiodiversity products.
HISTORY
The açaí tree (Euterpe oleracea Mart.) is native to the northern region of Brazil, growing
naturally in the flooded areas of the estuary of the Amazon and Tocantins rivers and other
rivers in the region. The distribution of açaí extends from the lower Amazon to the Guianas
and Venezuela, and is part of the diet of riverine populations, who traditionally use its fruits
in the production of açaí wine, a highly energetic and nutritious drink. Beginning in 1968, the
açaí heart of palm gained increasing economic importance, due to the decrease in the supply
of Juçara ( Euterpe Mart.), a palm tree native to the South and Southeast regions of Brazil.
From the 1990s onwards, heart of palm began to lose its extractive and clandestine nature,
giving way to the more rational and sustainable production of cultivated palm heart
(BITTENCOURT, KC, 2020).
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS AND ENVIRONMENT: AGROFORESTRY, WILD HARVESTING,
PLANTING
All Brazilian regions participate in the production of heart of palm (extractive and cultivated).
The north region is dominant in palm heart extraction, strongly represented by the state of
Pará, where it is an important source of employment and income, while cultivation
predominates in the south, southeast and northeast regions ( Bittencourt, KC, 2020 ) . In the
past the extraction of palm hearts from wild stands often threatened the supply of açaí
berries. However, more efficient management systems have been developed that optimize
the production of palm hearts from stems that are culled when they reach a certain size,
reflecting the increasing demand for berries. These management systems provide increased
financial returns for the producers (TECNOLOGIA E TRAINING, 2017). Açaí trees are often
grown in agroforestry systems including with numerous other tree species, such as rubber
trees, cocoa and cupuaçu, or in monocultures (MANEJE BEM, 2021).
TERM OF MATURITY
In general, açaí stems are harvested when they reach five years of age. This ensures softer
and smoother heart of palm. The yield of heart of palm at this size is roughly 200 grams per
stem (MANEJE BEM, 2021).Açai fruit production increases until stems reach 8-9 years of age.
PRODUCER PROFILE AND SOCIAL IMPACTS

16

Açai production has been largely dominated by small scale producers and local, small scale
intermediaries. In some areas smallholders live and farm on the land of large landowners and
have various share holding arrangements. As the acai market has developed and demand for
acai has grown incomes have increased, depending on local land tenure arrangements.
Further investment is needed to improve labor productivity so producers and their families
can continue to benefit from the development of the acai economy.
PRODUCTION PROBLEMS
Unsustainable extraction of açaí for palmito. Lack of applied research, credit and technical
assistance for producers.
SUPPLY CHAIN ISSUES
Despite strict control by the food industry, canned heart of palm can be contaminated with C.
botulinum. This is especially likely if the heart of palm is derived from illegal harvesting
operations that do not meet the sanitary and hygiene standards of INMETRO and ANVISA
(Food Safety Brazil , 2015) .
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PROCESSING AND DIMENSIONS
Recomendations include increasing inspections; promotion of certification; and investing in
modern supply chain infrastructure. Another recommendation is the creation of tax
incentives for socio-biodiversity products, application of a differentiated rate for interstate
trade and export to other countries; tax exemption on heart of palm processing operations;
and the creation of a specific fund for investment in the development and strengthening of
local value chains.
CREDIT POTENTIAL/CARBON SEQUESTRATION
With a pricing policy that recognizes the social benefit of stored carbon, the share of Added
Value generated by the heart of palm sector could increase from 10% to 67.8% by 2040.
National retail taxes could be reduced from 33% to 12% .5% (ICMS). This demonstrates the
importance of measures to distribute the revenue resulting from carbon pricing by producers
to other agents in the local production chain, as this produces positive externalities
associated with the conservation of native vegetation, increasing the volume of stored
carbon (TNC, 2022).
CERTIFICATION PROGRAMS
At the end of the 1990s, some quality seals were created by ANVISA, attesting to the safety
of products for consumption in response to botulism outbreaks resulting from the
consumption of canned hearts of palm. Today, heart of palm must be certified by IBAMA and
the manufacturer must have a permit from the Sanitary Surveillance (Food Safety Brazil ,
2015).
CERTIFICATION

BY-PRODUCT
S

COMPANY

TYPE

17

HACCP

canned
hearts
palm

QIMA/WQ
of
S

The Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points, is a
certification that focuses on product quality, verifying the
company as a whole, that is, it evaluates from the human
resources sector, to the planting conditions

RELEVANT SECTORS
Aggregators/suppliers
The heart of palm segment is highly fragmented. There are currently around 170 companies
working in the country (INACERES, 2022). The Palm Heart Industry Union of Pará (Sindpalm)
brings together 28 companies, 90% of them located in the largest industrial center of its kind
on Ilha do Marajó.
exporters
In the international market, the largest purchases are made by the United States (Sindpalm,
2019).
importers
The main Brazilian importers of heart of palm are located in the South and Southeast regions
of the country.
IMPORT/EXPORT AND COMPLIANCE FEES
According to data from UN COMTRADE (2021), Brazil exported 411,367 kg of heart of palm
for a total value of US$ 1,776,478 (4.32 US$/kg); and imported 15,905 kg, at US$ 81.127
(5.10 US$/kg) in 2021. The price of Brazilian heart of palm is higher than that of other
exporting countries. Among the factors that contribute to the higher value of the heart of
palm in Brazil are: transportation, as the country's road network is very deficient (SILVA et al.,
2017).
BIOCULTURAL
PROTECTIONS
PROTOCOL/CGEN/ETC.)

OF

COMMUNITIES

OF

ORIGIN

(NAGOYA

Brazilian adherence to the Nagoya Protocol, Legislative Decree No. 136 of 08/11/2020,
ratified by the national executive in March 2021, can leverage the açaí production chain due
to the use and exploitation of genetic heritage by other countries.
REGULATORY INFORMATION
Harmonized System Code: 2008.91: Canned heart of palm

18

2.3 ANDIROBA (Carapa guianensis) - ANDIROBA OIL
Andiroba is an Amazonian fruit discovered and used by indigenous peoples. Its name comes
from the Tupi term ãdi’roba, which means “bitter taste”, which along with its strong smell are
striking characteristics of andiroba oil. Other names: andirova, andiroba-saruba or carapá.

PRODUCT
Virgin andiroba oil
Timber: extraction of andiroba trees for timber can compete with almond collection and
processing for oil.
BY-PRODUCTS
Virgin and refined oil are considered by-products, widely used in the phytocosmetics and
phytotherapics industry, it is also a valued timber species.
Andiroba oil is an important traditional medicine. Due to its anti-inflammatory, antiseptic
and healing properties, it can be used to treat worms, skin diseases, fever and inflammation,
it is used as a massage oil for muscle relaxation, relieves muscle pain and inflammation. It is
also used as a moisturizer and in hair proucts, competing with other Amazonian vegetable
oils such as: copaíba, Brazil nut oil, patauá, murumuru, açaí (COSTA et al., 2015).
CURRENT MARKET SIZE
Andiroba oil is an input for the cosmetic and pharmaceutical industries, in various personal
hygiene, beauty and health-related products. Andiroba oil is sold in the Brazilian market and
is exported to the United States and European countries, such as Germany, Spain and France
(CONAB, 2022).
SIZE OF THE PROJECTED FUTURE MARKET
The size of the global Andiroba Oil market was estimated at US$95.1 million in 2021 and is
projected to reach US$145.02 million in 2028 (53% in 7 years), assuming a CAGR of 6.21%
during the forecast period. However, production trends in recent years suggest that this
forecast may be optimistic.
VOLUMES SOLD/CONSUMED

19

In 2020, production was 115.5 tons, an amount 5.5% lower than in 2019, distributed in the
states of AM, MA and PA, especially the states of Amazonas and Pará, which accounted for
about 87% of national production, and the state of Maranhão with the remaining 13%. The
drop wasmainly avoided by restrictions caused by the global COVID-19 pandemic, hitting
local businesses, paralyzing logistics and processing (CONAB, 2022).
PRICE TRENDS
The price paid to producers for andiroba oil is quite variable over time and from place to
place, ranging in recent years between R$ 0.77/kg and R$1.62 kg (CONAB, 2022).
Wholesale prices on the international market for andiroba oil vary from $170.78 to $213 per
gallon gallon, to between $711.58 and $889.48 per 44lb containers (EBAY, 2023).
HISTORY
The Andirobeira, Carapa guianensis Aubl, occurs throughout the Amazon basin, primarily in
lowland environments. It also occurs on Caribbean islands, southern Central America and
northern South America (Ferraz et al., 2003). The Andirobeira has been an important source
of timber that competes with its value as a source of high quality oil. Fortunately, the
Andiroba tree grows quite rapidly and is less vulnerable to logging pressure. It is increasingly
used in agroforestry systems for its oil (LAMEIRA et al., 2022).
PRODUCTION
PLANTATION

SYSTEMS

AND

ENVIRONMENT:

AGROFORESTRY,

WILD

HARVEST,

Where sustainable management practices have been adopted, the andirobeira also
contributes to the sustainable use and ecological resilience of the forest as a whole (CONAB,
2022). The Andirobeira is an important species in agroforestry systems for both its timber
and the oil obtained from almonds harvested annually as trees grow. The value of andiroba
wood can be a threat to wild stands in areas where forest governance is weak.
MATURITY TIME
It is a medium to large tree, with a cylindrical and straight trunk and thick bark. The fruit is a
globular, dehiscent capsule (fruits, when ripe, open to expose the seed) of four valves that
separate when they fall to the ground releasing four to twelve seeds, which weigh an average
of 21g. An adult tree can produce up to 120 kg of seeds (average 50 kg). In general harvest
occurs between January and June and can vary from one year to another depending on
rainfall patterns.
As with many Amazon forest trees, andiroba nuts are adapted to germinate soon after
dispersal. As a result, storage for extended periods of time is not feasible without
compromising oil extraction, and harvest areas tend to be concentrated in areas close to
local processing plants (CONAB, 2022).
Almonds contain 43% fat, but yield depends on the extraction methods used. For example, 1
liter of oil requires 12 kg of almonds with manual extraction, 4kg of seeds with mechanical

20

extraction and 3kg of seeds with the use of solvents. The average yield of oil from an
andiroba tree ranges from 10 liters with manual extraction up to 30 liters with more
intensive extraction methods.
PRODUCER PROFILE AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
Andiroba almond collection and oil extraction are largely practiced by traditional and
indigenous people in those areas with access to local processing plants. In these areas, the
collection and processing of andiroba oil can be a significant income source for rural families
in these areas (MENDONÇA; FERRAZ, 2006).
PRODUCTION PROBLEMS
As with other socio-biodiversity products, logistics is the main bottleneck for producing and
marketing andiroba oil. The relatively high prices for andiroba almonds in Amazonas and Pará
is a result of increasing demand for oil; fragility in the supply chain, a reflection of the
informality in the activity, from almond collection oil production; the perishability of the fats
in almonds can compromise quality and quantity of the oil; and low value added of the final
product (CONAB, 2022).
SUPPLY CHAIN PROBLEMS
Natural medicinal products require certification by the National Health Surveillance Agency
(ANVISA) to ensure products comply with quality standards, the absence of the quality seal
restricts the amount of andiroba and copaiba oils that can be sold by individual
establishments (COELHO et al., 2014).
Brazil is a major supplier of essential oil to the US market, but suffers from chronic problems
such as variable quality of the oil, low national representation and low government
investment in the sector (BIZZO et al., 2009; SOUZA et al., 2010).
CREDIT POTENTIAL/CARBON SEQUESTRATION
Andiroba trees can be an important income source from forests managed for nontimber
forest products and also plays an important role in agroforestry systems. Forest carbon
credits could be an added incentive for the sustainable management of andiroba in local
forests.
CERTIFICATION PROGRAMS
CERTIFICATION

BY-PRODUCT
S

ORGANIC BRAZIL
USDA-ORGANIC
–
Organic
Agriculture in the USA -USDA Andiroba
NOP
virgin oil
ECOCERT cosmos organic
organic
refined oil
ORGANIC IBD

COMPANY
Amazon Oil Ind. and with. of Eireli Vegetable Oils
Beraca Natural Ingredients Ltd
100 (Percent) Amazônia Exportação e Representação Ltda
Association of Small Agroforestry Producers of the Reca
Project and the Agricultural and Forestry Cooperative of
the RECA Project

21
ECOCERT cosmos organic

Symbiosis Amazon

RELEVANT SECTORS
Almond -> Oil (pharmaceutical and aesthetic industries)
In the Manaus region, there are only a few plants processing andiroba, generating a dynamic
of low demand, which in the case of extractive products can result in low supply since
extractive producers are not prepared to carry out the collection in the forests. The
production of the Juruá/AM region is purchased by almost every pela Natura company, along
with USAID/Brazil, the Plataforma Parceiros pela Amazônia (PPA) and the Bioversity/CIAT
Alliance (CONAB, 2022).
Aggregators/suppliers
Retailers
ORGANIZATION
The wall
Association of Rural Working Women united for Freedom,
Humanity and Love
ASPROJU
Jutaí Producers Association

CONTACTS
(68) 99965-1946 Nataíres
(68) 99968-9961 Aldeli
womenamuralha@gmail.com
https://amuralha.ac.amazoniativa.com/
(97) 3425-1056

Association of Agroextractivists Ribeirinhos do Rio Araguari

(96) 3118-4477

COOPFITS
Cooperative of Producers and Beneficiaries of Medicinal Plants,
Phytotherapeutics and Phytocosmetics of Manaquiri

(92) 9627-7327

copronate
Amazon Natural Products Cooperative
Socio-environmental Institute of Amapá – Cumaú

(92) 2528-2088
rubemgoes@bol.com.br
(96) 99190-6008

RECA
Association of Small Agroforestry Producers of the RECA Project
and the Agricultural and Forestry Cooperative of the Project

(69) 3253-1046/(69) 3253-1007
WhatsApp: (69) 98471-0234
projectorreca@yahoo.com.br
https://www.projetoreca.com.br/

IMPORT/EXPORT AND COMPLIANCE RATES
Disaggregated data on the export and import of andiroba essential oil are not available, as
vegetable oils are accounted for together.
BIOCULTURAL PROTECTIONS OF COMMUNITIES OF ORIGIN (NAGOYA/CGEN/ETC.
PROTOCOL.)
The Brazil adheres to the Nagoya Protocol, Legislative Decree No. 136 of 08/11/2020, signed
into law in March 2021. This legislation can add value to the andiroba production based on
the use and exploitation of Brazil’s genetic heritage by other countries (Amazonoil, 2022).
REGULATORY INFORMATION
IUPAC Name : Carapa Guaianensis Seed Oil is the fixed oil expressed from the seeds of
Carapa guaianensis , Meliaceae

22

Harmonized System Code : 4407.29.02.40 - Andiroba (Carapa guianensis and C. procera)
CAS Number : 352458-32-3 / 223748-14-9

23

2.4 BABAÇU (Attalea speciosa Mart. ex Spreng) – BABASSU OIL
Babassu, one of the main products of Amazon sociobiodiversity, is a palm tree of the family
Aracaceae. It is found predominantly in floodplain areas and valley bottoms and depressions
and occurs in several regions of Brazil, mainly in the states of Pará, Maranhão, Tocantins and
Piauí, in transitional areas between the Cerrado, Caatinga and Amazon forest biomes. It is
also called the coconut-palm, coconut de-macaco, coco-pindoba, baguaçu, uauaçu, among
other names. The collection and processing of babassu cocunts is practically the only source
of support for a large part of the landless interior population of the regions where babassu
occurs, especially in the State of Maranhão. The extraction of babassu almonds involves
more than 300 thousand families, primaritly women accompanied by their children: the
"breakers" (quebradeiras), as they are called (MOREIRA, 2013).

PRODUCT
The fruit or coconut has a number of uses. The shell, known as epicarp, is used to make
xaxim, an organic fertilizer or serves as a fuel in homemade ovens. The edible mesocarp has
great nutritional value and is an important element of the local diet.
BY-PRODUCT
Seed or almond: Almonds from 3 to 5 in each fruit - are extracted manually and sold to local
crushing industries and producers of crude babassu oil.
Natural vegetable oil: The oil extracted from almonds, which constitutes 65% of the weight
of almonds, has great market and industrial value. It is produced for two purposes: edible oil
is used in cooking (similar to coconut oil, with the potential to compete with other vegetable
oils); and for industrial purposes (lauric oil) used in the manufacture of soap, detergents,
cosmetics, lubricants, biodiesel and herbal medicines. Refined and solidified oil: produced at
low temperatures known as "azeite babaçu", produced with roasted almonds, adding water
for future evaporation. In the refining process, the oil needs to undergo a calculation, after
the separation of the "azeite babaçu” from the dough (BARBOSA, 2022; DOMINGUES,
ARAÙJO, SILVA, 2017).
CURRENT MARKET SIZE

24

The global market value of babassu oil was USD219.2 million in 2021, and increased to USD
227.7 million in 2022 (3.9% growth rate). Paradoxically, national production of babassu oil
declined from 48,706 tons in 2019, to 32,074t in 2021. The trend may be a related to the
covid epidemic.
Main destinations in 2016 were: Netherlands, Germany, Uruguay, Paraguay and the United
Kingdom, together totaled 1.72 million value in exports. The Brazilian lauric oil market is
currently the main market for babassu oil. The industries of the hygiene, cleaning and
cosmetics segments absorb 35 thousand tons of raw babassu oil annually (EMBRAPA, 2021;
CONAB, 2022).
PROJECTED FUTURES MARKET SIZE
Despite recent trends in national production of babassu oil, the value of the global babassu
market is expected to increase by CAGR of 4.3% to reach $347 million by 2032.
VOLUMES SOLD/CONSUMEDS
As noted production of babassu oil ranged from 48,706 tons in 2019, to 32,074t in 2021 most
of which was exported.
PRICE TREND
The average price on the national babassu almond market is R $ 2.67 / kg. In Maranhão,
Ceará and Piauí, the trend observed in the high prices in the annual variation (2019/2020). In
2020 the price indices of babassu almonds had considerable variation between markets, with
the most significant increase occurring in Tocantins, 29%, followed by Ceará and Piauí. The
pressure of demand on supply was the main reason for the increase in prices (CONAB, 2021).
HISTORY
There may be two trends in motion today. Historically, the expansion of the babassu market
was dependent on growth of the cleaning industry, such as soap, this expansion may be
compromised by competition with palm kernel oil, which is similar to babassu oil but has
higher productivity and a much lower production cost than babassu. The expansion of oil
palm production and the import of palm oil could outcompete babassu oil in a large segment
of the cleaning industry. This is a point in the commercial scenario of babassu that should be
observed when talking about the decrease in production and yield of coconut breakers
(EMBRAPA, 2021; OLIVEIRA et al., 2022; CONAB, 2021). The lauric oils market has become
the main market for babassu almonds, but it suffers competition with palm oil kernel and
coconut oils (CONAB, 2022).
There is growing interest in organic and natural cosmetics. Babassu oil is rich in fatty acids,
which is a key ingredient of soaps, creams and shampoos, has antimicrobial and
anti-inflamatory properties, and is rich in antioxidants that can prevent skin damage. There is
a growing interest in the babassu value chain due to international demand for products
originating from fair trade relations. One example of this trend may be Natura Cosméticos,

25

one of the largest buyers of babassu coconut crude oil, purchased 24 tons of babassu oil in
2020 and is expected to increase purchases to around 130 tons in coming years (FUNDO
AMAZÔNIA, 2023; NATURA, 2020; ASSEMA, 2021).
The Babassu value chain seems to be moving from the traditional market to one that
specifically values the social and environmental aspects of babassu, providing ecosystem
services to local populations and supporting continued development of organizational
capacity, support for the culture of babassu producers and the inclusive modernization of
their value chain so they become fully integrated into the evolving bioeconmy.
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS AND ENVIRONMENT: AGROFORESTRY, WILD HARVESTING,
PLANTATION
The babassu palm is closley integrated into regional agroforestry systems. The cultivation of
annual crops and animal grazing occurs under the palm trees that self-propagate. Despite its
abundance, it is not uncommon to see the planting and management of babassu in
agricultural areas, which take place during the rainy season. The consortium of babassu trees
with annual crops such as rice, corn, beans, cassava, as well as animal pastures, constitute an
efficient and sustainable management system for the babassu biome. At the same time the
adaptive capacity of babassu palms can be effective in reforesting excessively dry and
nutrient-poor lands (FUNDO AMAZÔNIA, 2019; ABIERO, et al., 2017). It is one of the most
abundant palms in the Amazon and the Brazilian Cerrado biomes. The species is adapted for
colonizing areas following deforestation. The diversity of economically useful products and
relatively production contribute to the babassu palm importance in relation to other wild
species.
MATURITY TIME
Babassu palms have an average life span of 35 years. They begin producing fruit when they
reach 8 to 10 years of age and attain full production by the 15th year. They produce 3 to 6
bunches of fruit over the year and each bunch has between 150 and 300 coconuts each of
which contains an average 3 almonds. Trees usually produce between three and five bunches
of yellowish flowers. The peak flowering occurs between January and April and the fruits
ripen between August and December. As they ripen the fruits fallto the ground, and are
collected by the “coconut breakers”, women from traditional agroextractive communities. In
addition to collecting and processing the nuts, the coconut breakers have had to organize to
fight for recognition of their territorial right to manage babassu trees on public and private
lands (PAES-DE-SOUZA et al., 2011).
PRODUCER PROFILE AND SOCIAL IMPACTSS
Babassu almonds are obtained, primarily through the work of the so-called "coconut
breakers", including traditional peoples and communities, as well as indigenous groups that
also maintain a relationship with this palm tree. The babassu coconut breakers, or breakers
(Quebradeiras), and there relationship with the Babaçu are part of the highly biodiverse

26

ecosystem located in the eastern transition zone between the Amazon Forest and cerrado
biomes.
Now as the bioeconomy is elevated to a national priority in the research, development and
innovation agenda, the babassu and the management system these communities have
developed have much to offer and to gain from involvement in programs that promote the
sustainable use of the products of Brazilian biodiversity. For hundreds of rural communities
and tens of thousands of vulnerable families, the babassu almond is still an essential source
of monetary income (PORRO, 2019).
PRODUCTION PROBLEMS
One of the technical bottlenecks of babassu production is the primitive technology and low
productivity of babassu harvesting, extraction and processing to produce babassu oil so that
a large part of the value of the supply chain is captured higher up the chain.
SUPPLY CHAIN PROBLEMS
Babassu almonds are channeled to a relatively small number of processing industries. The
expansion of the babassu market is quite dependent on the growth of cleaning industry and
this expansion may be compromised by competition with oil palm kernel oil, which has
higher productivity and much lower costs than babassu. Competition from imported oil palm
oil could cause a decline in demand for babassu.
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PROCESSING AND SIZING
Seeking to achieve legally binding biodiversity targets will influence the GVCs of companies
that rely on natural resources found in regions inhabited by protected communities within
specific socio-cultural and economic contexts.
Investment in processing equipment (such as the vegetable oil extraction press) could
replace the far less efficient manual extraction.
Studies of the implementation of processing plants for some by-products; characterization of
the technical-economic feasibility of derivatives processing; study of the production quality
of natural vegetable oil and refined and solidified oil.
Development of more productive commercial techniques for the exploitation of babassu
products and conservation of the Babaçu Forest (OLIVEIRA et al., 2022)
These opportunities for investment to address bottlenecks could contribute to the
developent of a more inclusive and equitable babassu bioeconomy.
CARBON CREDIT/SEQUESTRATION POTENTIAL
The babassu is an important element of the transitional landscape they occupy that plays an
important direct and indirect role in carbon sequestration (OLIVEIRA, 2022).
CERTIFICATION PROGRAMS

27
CERTIFICATION

BY-PRODUC
COMPANY
TS

TYPE

ORGANIC BRAZIL

Allows organic commercialization within Brazil;

Fair Trade
(2000)

Fair trade. Andestablish direct contact between the
producer and the buyer, reducing bureaucracy in trade
and sparing them from dependence on middlemen and
the instabilities of the global commodity market.

Certified

Drinkeo de
USDA-ORGANIC
–
babaçu
Agricultura
orgânica
nos EUA -USDA NOP
IBD ORGÂNICO
Agriculture
Orgânic
Europe

ECOCERT
FSC
QIMAIBD

Allows marketing of organic products in the United
States;
Guarantees the quality and origin of organic products
Permite that its organic products are marketed in the
European Union

RELEVANT SECTORS
Retailers
Retailer
Central do Cerrado – (cooperative of a group of producers)
Cooperativa dos Pequenos Produtores Agroextrativistas de Lago do
Junco LTDA (COPPALJ)
Association of Rural Women Workers of Lago do Junco and Lago
dos Rodrigues (AMTR)
Interstate Cooperative of Women Breakers of Coconut Babaçu
(CIMQCB)
Cooperativa dos Pequenos Produtores Agroextrativistas de
Esperantinopolis LTDA (COPAESP)

Site
https://www.centraldocerrado.org.br/
https://www.coppalj.com.br/
Phone: +55
3642-2152

99

9172-4139

|

99

https://www.miqcb.org/
Email – coopaesp1@ig.com.gbr

IMPORT/EXPORT TARIFFS AND COMPLIANCE
For export/import, the traded value of babassu as a non-chemically modified vegetable oil is
UR$ 3.9/kg (COMTRADE, 2021).
BIOCULTURAL PROTECTIONS
PROTOCOL/ETC.)

OF

COMMUNITIES

OF

ORIGIN

(NAGOYA/CGEN

The Nagoya Protocol "strengthens opportunities for fair and equitable sharing of the benefits
deriving from: a) the use of genetic resources derived from native species and b) the
traditional knowledge and practices associated with the use of native species by local
communities." One of these native species is the babassu palm, ranked third among the top
8 non-timber forest products (NMFP).
REGULATORY INFORMATION
inci Name: Attalea speciosa Mart. ex Spreng
Harmonized System Code: 15.13 - Oils of coconut (copra), palm kernels (palm kernels)
(coconote) or babassu, and their fractions, whether or not refined, but not chemically
modified.
NCM: 1513.21.20

28

2.5 BACURI (Platonia insignis)
The bacuri occurs in the Amazon region, it is also found in the Cerrado biome in the states of
Maranhão and Piauí. The species, in the past, was not seen as a fruitful plant, but exploited
for having a resistant wood for building boats and houses. One of the most valued bacuri
products is its pulp, which is sweet, aromatic and highly sought after in the local market
(ISPN, 2023).

PRODUCT
Pulp – food industry (juices, liqueurs, jellies, sweets and ice cream) and in the medicine
industry (anti-inflammatory and healing).
BY-PRODUCT
Wood – construction of boats and houses;
Oil or 'bacuri lard' – taken from the seeds, with medicinal and cosmetic value;
Fruit residues – used in animal feed.
CURRENT MARKET SIZE
In Belém, trade in fresh fruit, followed by ice cream, juices and smoothies, is quite significant.
In 1994, the trade in bacuri fruits moved a total of US$1,610,000 (7 million fruits at a price of
US$0.23 each), and in 10 years (2004), the volume of this market grew, at least, by 3 times.
Bacuri is found both in more peripheral markets and in large supermarkets. Most ice cream
parlors and snack bars also serve ice cream, fruit juices and smoothies.
Of the product that enters the market, 97% is sold in natura and 3% in the form of pulp. Of
these, 68% are sold at the fair, direct to the final consumer; 14% is sold to pulp processors
who pass it on to snack bars and ice cream parlors; 5% go directly from the farmers to snack
bars and ice cream parlors (generally smaller ones that are responsible for pulping the fruit)
and 10% are intermediated to external markets, mainly in Belem (MEDINA; FERREIRA, 2004).
The total VA generated in 2019 of BRL 11.5 million represents 3.5 times the original value of
rural production, of BRL 3.3 million; this can be considered a primary chain multiplier. The
arrangements that, in the local economy, produce bacuri absorbed 100% of the VA
generated: they are, therefore, strongly pro-local chains. Of the participation of the local

29

economy, 97% stayed in the interior – they are chains, therefore, strongly pro-interior (TNC,
2021).
PROJECTED FUTURE MARKET SIZE
The bacuri market began to gain strength from the year 2000 onwards. The fruit was used by
collector farmers only for domestic consumption. Many farmers today are already starting to
reserve small areas, until then destined for shifting cultivation, for the regeneration of
capoeira with the bacuri tree.
In Pará, the trade chain has diversified, producing municipalities already buy and sell bacuri
to other municipalities and export part of their production mainly to Belém. The growth in
demand has led to an increase in prices and all points in the chain are earning enough
income to stimulate the expansion of the market (MEDINA; FERREIRA, 2004).
The bacuri rural production supply regime is characterized by a strongly inelastic production
response, since a variation of 1 percentage point in the (current) price results in an increase
of 0.239 percentage points in the quantity produced. The growing evolution of the real price
paid to the producer, in turn, at 3.9% pa, indicates that supply has grown at a slower pace
than demand (TNC, 2021).
However, it is worth mentioning that a large part of this increase in demand is due to
domestic trade. There were no significant increases in bacuri exports to other states and
shipping to other countries is unknown. From a strategic point of view, it seems much more
interesting to invest in the local market, which involves lower risks and still has great growth
potential (MEDINA; FERREIRA, 2004).
VOLUMES SOLD/CONSUMED
Based on field studies, the TNC sociobiodiversity team estimate that bacuri production grew
at an average rate of 4.4% per year between 2006 and 2019 with total production reaching
1.8 thousand tons in 2019 (TNC, 2021). The gross value of bacuri production is estimated to
have grown at 8.2% per year over the same period, reaching R$3.3 million in 2019.
PRICE TREND
There is considerable variation in the price of bacuri fruit, influenced mainly by the size and
shape of the fruit, as well as seasonal variation in prices related to the harvest period
(MEDINA; FERREIRA, 2004). In November, 2022, the price per kg of bacuri pulp ranged from
US$ 5.96 to US$ 9.95 in Belém-PA. The price in São Luís-MA during the same period was
around US $ $5.37/kg.
HISTORY: The bacurizeiro is native to the Brazilian Amazon but is widely distributed
throughout northern and central Brazil from the Guianas and the states of Pará, Maranhão
and Piauí to Paraguay. The bacuri is also known as acuri, bacuri- guaçu, bacuri-grande,
pacurinha, pacuru. Its name, in tupi, means “what falls as soon as it ripens”, and it is for this
reason that the fruit is harvested only when it falls from the tree. In the first two centuries of

30

Amazon colonization, the bacurizeira was more important as a timber species than as a fruit
tree. In recent years as the bacuri gained value as a fruit tree logging pressure has declined.
Until the mid-1960s, bacuri was more popular than cupuaçu. However, as cultivation of
cupuaçu became wisespread in the 1990s, it abundance and popularity have somewhat
eclipsed that of the bacuri (Toda Fruta, 2016).
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS AND ENVIRONMENT: AGROFOREST, WILD HARVESTING, PLANTING
Because of difficulty propagating bacuri seedlings and its extended juvenile phase,
commercial cultivation of bacuri is rare and the majority of fruit still comes from wild stands
of bacuri. As a result of their exploitation for timber and the virtual absence of management
or cultivation, bacuri trees are not as abundant as they were in the past (Toda Fruta, 2016).
MATURITY TIME
Bacuri is a leafy tree that can reach 40 meters in height and two meters in diameter. With
pink or white flowers, the species can reproduce in two ways: by seeds or sprouting from the
roots. In areas with open vegetation, bacuri densities, at the beginning of regeneration, can
reach 40,000 individuals per hectare. The bacuri fruit is a berry, voluminous and ovoid to
rounded, or subglobose in shape, weighing between 350 and 400 g, reaching up to 1,000 g.
The fruit has a thick skin, 1 to 2 cm thick. The pulp is soft and delicate and has a
white-yellowish color, with a very pleasant smell and taste, rich in vitamin C, phosphorus,
iron and calcium.
Fruiting occurs between September and February in Piauí and Maranhão, with fruit harvest
between December and March/April and peaks in February and March. Bacuri trees begin to
produce at around 10 years of age. The average production per adult tree in an upland area
is 400 fruits per year. The skin makes up about 68% of the fruit, the pulp 15% and the seeds
about another 15%, with higher yields in yellow-skinned fruits than in green-skinned ones
(ISPN, 2023). The production varies from year to year with years of high production followed
by years of low production. Consequently, there is an enormous year to year variation in the
volume of fruit reaching the market (MEDINA; FERREIRA, 2004).
PRODUCER PROFILE AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
In Pará, bacuri collected from surrounding areas, has a greater participation in food security
and income of producing families. Families with surplus production (generally with more
than 10 trees producing annually), sell the fruit to supplement household income. The total
income (monetary and non-monetary) of the families is around US$2,470 per year. On
average, the consumption and/or sale of bacuri contributes only about 2% of the total. In
families with greater access to the market and with more than 10 trees, bacuri represents
less than 10% of total income.
PRODUCTION PROBLEMS
The bacurizeiro is a rustic plant that needs little cultural treatment. Management begins only
after the trees have started to produce and consists of one annual clearing to facilitate the

31

collection of the fruits. More recently, with the increasing importance of the fruit and its
derivatives, some farmers have begun to manage the trees and surrounding area from early
in the bacuri lifecycle (MEDINA; FERREIRA, 2004).
SUPPLY CHAIN PROBLEMS
There is no specific legislation for the sale and processing of bacuri products. The few small
companies that process bacuri do not have any special support and also no impediment.
However, bacuri seems to be gaining recognition and increasing commercial value. Agents
specialized in transforming the fruit into pulp and reselling it to snack bars and ice cream
parlors are beginning to gain importance. Ice cream parlors and snack bars are working with
a much higher turnover of the product; and bacuri pulp is now sold during harvest periods
on a daily basis (MEDINA; FERREIRA, 2004).
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PROCESSING AND SIZING
There are few botanical and ecological works on the bacuri tree, and research aimed at
perceiving the species as an integral part of the farmers' production system is practically
non-existent in the Amazon. Field work that seeks to rescue the knowledge of farmers who
have been using forest products, including bacuri, is essential (MEDINA; FERREIRA, 2004).
Implementation of rural development policies: Science, Technology and Innovation (CT&I),
credit and technical assistance; Creation of a continuous product value chain database
system;
Creation of tax incentives for socio-biodiversity products and application of a differentiated
rate for interstate trade operations and exports to other countries, as these are specific
products linked to the biodiversity of the biome (TNC, 2022)..
CREDIT POTENTIAL/CARBON SEQUESTRATION
In the itinerant cultivation cycle, bacuri regeneration plays an important role in biomass
production. Due to its regenerative vigor, which is due to the intense process of root
regrowth, the bacuri grows very quickly after burning and, after a year, already covers the
entire surface of the land with trees over one meter high. This characteristic demonstrates
that it is a species with relevant potential for carbon sequestration (MEDINA; FERREIRA,
2004).
CERTIFICATIONS PROGRAMS
CERTIFICATION
ORGANIC BRAZIL

BY-PRODUCTS COMPANY

Licor de Bacuri
Orgânico
Organic farming Europe (EU) Geleia
de
Bacuri
ECOCERT
Orgânico
Agricultura
Familiar
Caroço
do
PA000071/19 BRASIL
Bacuri
USDA-ORGANIC
–

TYPE
Allows organic commercialization within Brazil;
It allows marketing of organic products in the
European Union, applies to agricultural raw
materials and food products
National Seal of Family Agriculture – SENAF
identifies the products of family farming in
Brazil.
Allows marketing of organic products in the

32
Agricultura orgânica
EUA -USDA NOP

nos

United States;

RELEVANT SECTORS
Because of the low level and dispersed nature of bacuri management and fruit collection,
processing and distribution there is virtually now systematic and continuous monitoring of
the supply chain or of the volume of fruit produced, processed and marketed. As with many
traditional extractive products in the Amazon, they are virtually invisible to the formal
economy.
Retailer
Fazenda Bacuri

Site
https://www.fazendabacuri.com.br/

IMPORT/EXPORT AND COMPLIANCE RATES
Data for bacuri are aggregated for tropical fruits.
BIOCULTURAL PROTECTIONS OF COMMUNITIES OF ORIGIN (NAGOYA/CGEN/ETC.
PROTOCOL)
Brazilian adherence to the Nagoya Protocol, Legislative Decree No. 136 of 08/11/2020 ,
ratified by the national executive in March 2021, can leverage the bacuri production chain
due to the use and exploitation of genetic heritage by other countries.
REGULATORY INFORMATION
inci Name: Platonia insignis
Harmonized System Code: 2007 - Doces, geleias, marmelades, purês e pastas de fruta,
obtidos por cozimento, mesmo com adição de açúcar ou de outros edulcorantes. 2007.9
NCM: 2007.99.10 – (Geleias e marmeladas)

33

2.6 BORRACHA NATURAL (Hevea brasilensis) - NATURAL RUBBER
Natural rubber includes rubber produced on plantations and rubber extracted from trees in
the Amazon rainforest. Natural rubber is sold in three forms: Latex -> Liquid; Cernambi Virgin
Pressed (CVP) and Liquid Smoked Leaf (FDL).

SUBPRODUCTS
rubber allows the production of multiple products for different uses: gloves, boots, tires,
inner tubes, sealants in general, adhesive tapes, condoms, electrical wires, there are more
than 40,000 products for the most diverse applications.
CURRENT MARKET SIZE
According to estimates by the Association of Natural Rubber Producing Countries (ANRPC),
world production of natural rubber was 14.0 million tons with a total value of US$ 22.360
million in 2018 (CONAB, 2019). Asian countries are responsible for about 90% of global
production. Brazilian production of natural rubber was estimated at 399 , 751 tons in 2021
(IBGE,2021).
PROJECTED FUTURE MARKET SIZE
World rubber production (natural and synthetic) grew at an average annual rate of 2.8%,
totaling 29.04 million tons in 2018 (ANRPC). The value of the natural rubber market is
projected to reach US$26.350 million by the end of 2027, an increase of almost 18% over 5
years or 3.5% per annum.
PRICE TRENDS
In February 2022, the reference price for importing natural rubber was US$ 2.69/kg,
indicating a drop of 8.37% compared to the previous month (IEA, 2022).
HISTORY
Species of the genus Hevea occur naturally in the Pan Amazon (Brazilian, Peruvian, Bolivian
and Venezuelan). Hevea brasilenesis, the main species responsible for the Asian production,
occurs naturally almost exclusively in the Amazon rainforest and especially along the main
trunk of the Amazon River and along its southern tributaries. Charles Marie de La Condamine
is credited with introducing samples of rubber to the scientific community in 1736. Over the
next few decades a number of useful discoveries were made that opened the way for wider

34

uses of rubber. The major discovery that gave it a key role in the later stages of the industrial
revolution was the discovery of vulcanization by Charles Goodyear which improved its
resistance and elasticity at low temperatures. Two major changes in transportation first the
bicycle craze and later the rise of the automobile transformed rubber into one of the key
materials of the modern economy. In 1876 Henry Wickham smuggled 70,000 seeds from
Brazil to Kew Gardens, England, from where seedlings were sent to India, Sri Lanka and
Indonesia, Singapore and Malaysia. Over the next few decades plantation production steadily
grew. Finally in 1912, the scale and low cost of SE Asian plantation rubber broke the
Amazon's extractive rubber economy and by 1920 the Amazon was a marginal player in the
expanding rubber market. Today more than 30,000 products have some rubber content.
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS
The predominant production model is extraction of latex from trees in naturally occurring
groves, areas where the density of trees is higher. In many cases these groves are the result
of indigenous and traditional forest management actions. The monoculture plantation
system is still not viable in the Brazilian Amazon due to the South American leaf blight,
Microcyclus ulei that spreads easily from one tree to another and significantly reduces the
productivity of the affected trees, making plantations economically unviable.
MATURITY TIME
The extraction of wild rubber occurs in mature forests, where there is a greater density of
rubber trees in the adult and productive phase. The rubber tree has a long life cycle and can
produce for 40 years, depending on the care taken in extracting the latex/milk. The time to
implement an enterprise and reach sustained production is relatively short because the trees
are already in the production phase (Ambiente Brasil, 2021).
PRODUCER PROFILE AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
According to the Confederation of Agriculture and Livestock of Brazil (CNA), the Brazilian
productive sector of natural rubber and its derivatives, generates more than 100,000 direct
jobs in the field and with that, income for countless families that live from the activity
(CropLife, 2020).
Currently there are more than 93,000 families involved in the collection and initial processing
of rubber, rubber production takes place in a family system and the communities of rubber
families are composed of a set of settings. Historically, placement income has been very low
and rubber tappers were among the poorest and most marginalized populations in Brazil
with low educational levels and equivalent health conditions.
This situation began to change in the 1990s with the conquests of the forest peoples
movement, specifically in this case the rubber tappers movement with the creation of
extractive reserves of different types, government investments in education and health,
payment programs for environmental services , such as the Bolsa da Floresta program and
various types of subsidies included in the price of latex harvested by rubber tappers. In this

35

new system of sustainable exploitation of the Amazonian forests by traditional and
indigenous communities, the rubber tree has a central role as one of the main sources of
income.
PRODUCTION ISSUES
The main production issues are related to the challenge of extracting latex from isolated
groves of wild trees dispersed throughout the forest. The quality of latex extracted from
groves of wild rubber trees is a major problem. Exposure to the sun, excessive use of
coagulants, dirt, delays in collection and other incorrect procedures degrade the latex.
Another major problem is the high cost of labor costs. The government of Acre has created
financial incentives that significantly increase the price paid to tappers. The stimulus reached
approximately 7 thousand families of rubber tappers and increased the production of wild
rubber to around 5 thousand tons/year, reactivating plants and rubber extraction throughout
the State of Acre. However, this type of incentive alone is not sufficient to further increase
production and ensure the sustainability of the sector.
In the last fifteen years there has been a significant improvement in the quality of rubber
processed in Brazil, mainly due to the demands of rubber industries. The current market
imposes rules that must be met by agribusinesses and the quality of the rubber must be
guaranteed from the rubber grove to processing.
SUPPLY CHAIN ISSUES
The full integration of wild rubber in the Amazon bioeconomy depends on the
transformation of all links in the chain. The work of collection, initial processing, storage and
disposal to local industries is quite onerous and the necessary labor is secured in the rubber
plantation through significant economic and social subsidies. To make the sustainable
exploitation of wild rubber economically and socially viable, there is a need to invest in
modern technology that progressively increases the productivity of labor in rubber
extraction. Significant improvements have been made in local processing. During the last
15 years production area has increased five-fold and productivity has doubled. Furthermore,
Brazil has the technology to further leverage these numbers and achieve significant gains in
competitiveness (ABRABOR, 2017).
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PROCESSING AND SIZING
Some challenges to face:
Reactivate research with rubber trees in the Amazon in plantations and in natural forests,
including the development of varieties that are more resistant to the SALB fungus.
Promote the addition of value to extractive rubber: handicrafts, etc.
Associate the image with a green seal/certification of geographic identity.
Protect extractive production through a value supplement, adding subsidy for its social and
environmental importance.
CREDIT POTENTIAL/CARBON SEQUESTRATION

36

A rubber tree has the capacity to neutralize 22 tons of carbon in one year. The main product
extracted from the tree is natural rubber, without the need to deforest the area to obtain the
product to be processed. Carbon credits are considered by the São Paulo Rubber Producers
and Beneficiaries Association (Apabor) and by the Brazilian Rubber Producers and
Beneficiaries Association (Abrabor) as an additional resource for rubber growers and sector
workers. Highlighting that a rubber tree produces for more than 40 years (InvesteSP , 2021).
CERTIFICATIONS PROGRAMS
Natural rubber is one of the world's most important commodities, so best practices are
crucial to ensure long-term sustainable supply. In July 2017, Brazil had 248,664 hectares, in 3
certified properties (FSC, 2018). It is an essential condition for supplying the pneumatic
industry with ISO 9001:2000 certification. The ABNT 11,597 standard defines the
specifications for natural rubber, but the pneumatic industries usually adopt their own
specifications to approve suppliers.
RELEVANT INDUSTRIES
Processing Plants: There are 16 rubber processing plants in Brazil. The State of São Paulo has
7 of these plants (Bálsamo: Indústria Braslatex; Jaci: Industry Hevea -Tech; Urupês: Industry
Northwest Rubber; Barretos, Cedral, Guapiacu, Parapuã and), 3 plants are located in Bahia, 1
in Espírito Santo, 4 in Mato Grosso and 1 in Pará.
Pneumatic Industry: The pneumatic industries usually have their own specifications for
suppliers. With the requirement of ISO 9001:2000, the natural rubber supplier must achieve
continuous improvements in efficiency and quality. This sector consumes around 70% of the
natural rubber on the market.
Artifacts Industry: the rubber artifacts industry in Brazil has been growing at a faster rate
than the pneumatics industries. The activity is responsible for the domestic consumption of
20 to 25% of natural rubber.
IMPORT/EXPORT AND COMPLIANCE RATES
According to data from UN COMTRADE (2022), Brazil exported 107,459 t, US$ 212,428,762
(1.98 US$/kg). The quantity exported in the last decade showed an increase in volume of
1,009.6% compared to 2012 data: 1,192,353 t, US$ 2,679,515,334 (2.25 US$/kg).
BIOCULTURAL PROTECTIONS OF COMMUNITIES OF ORIGIN (NAGOYA/CGEN/ETC.
PROTOCOL)
Brazilian adherence to the Nagoya Protocol, Legislative Decree No. 136 of 08/11/2020,
ratified by the national executive in March 2021, can leverage the rubber tree production
chain due to the use and exploitation of genetic heritage by other countries.
REGULATORY INFORMATION
Harmonized System Code : 4001 1 0
CAS Number : 9006 -046

37

2.7 BURITI (Mauritia flexuosa) – BURUTI - FIBER
The buriti is a palm tree widely found in South America, reaching up to 40m in height in the
Amazon region; known as moriche in Colombia and aguaje in Peru. In Brazil, it occurs in the
North (Acre, Amazonas, Pará, Rondônia, Tocantins), Northeast (Bahia, Ceará, Maranhão,
Piauí), Midwest (Federal District, Goiás, Mato Grosso do Sul, Mato Grosso) and Southeast
(Flora of Brazil, 2017). Buriti stands out due to the uses of different parts of the plant, its
diversity of uses made it known as the “Tree of Life”: in Brazil the main products sold are: the
fiber - in the Amazon; pulp and cosmetic oil - in the Cerrado (FERREIRA, 2018).

PRODUCT
Leaf fibers – “linen or silk” for mats, ropes, hats, handicrafts.
BY-PRODUCT
Pulp – food, animal feed and beverage industry, by fermentation;
Pulp oil – food, cosmetics and fuel industries, in popular medicine (healing);
Petiole – furniture and utensils;
Leaves – covering of houses;
Wood – bridges, stilt houses, houses;
Almond - sturdy crafts (small sculptures);
Seed oil - industry of products for hygiene, cleaning and cosmetics;
Heart of palm - little used.
CURRENT MARKET SIZE
The fiber is the buriti product that has the largest volume sold in the country, which are
delivered to the domestic and foreign markets. Exports primarily to the European market, as
fiber or handicrafts. Fiber handicrafts have been publicized and sold at national and
international fairs, such as in Germany and Italy.
In 2013, in non-timber extractive production, the group of Food products accounted for
71.3% of the total value of non-timber production, followed by Waxes (10.6%), Oilseeds

38

(10.4%) and Fibers (6 .8%) and most non-timber plant extraction is concentrated in the north
of the country (REMADE, 2014).
PROJECTED FUTURE MARKET SIZE
In 2009, Brazil produced 803 tons of buriti fiber, which generated a value of US$ 702,843.41
(0.87 US$/kg); in 2021, total production was 473 t, generating BRL 556,626 (1.18 US$/kg), in
12 years there was a 59% decrease in production and a 136% increase in price.
Buriti is considered a promising product, whose production exists on a low scale, but has
growth potential. Growing at 1.6% pa since 2006, the gross value of rural buriti production
reached R$ 2.7 million in 2019. As a result of an average increase of 3.5% pa over the same
period, the quantity produced in that year was 1.4 thousand tons. The proportion of the
product consumed in the local economy was 89% – these are domestic chains, with
export-based components (TNC, 2021).
VOLUMES SOLD/CONSUMED
The Brazilian states that produce buriti fiber are: Pará, Maranhão, Tocantins, Bahia,
Amazonas and Ceará. In 2021, the amount of buriti fiber produced in Brazil was 473 t with a
value of US$ 556,627, the states of the Amazon contributed with almost the total of this
production (97% of the volume produced (458 t), the value was US$ 549,212, 99% of the
total value the largest states producing buriti fiber in the Brazilian Amazon were: Pará (271 t)
and Maranhão (116 t) (IBGE, 2021).
Regarding the projected quantity for 2040, a potential production of 1,332 tons is expected,
with an average decrease of 0.3% pa (TNC, 2022).
PRICE TREND
In a comparative analysis of estimated prices between Brazilian states, in 2021, values for a
kilo of buriti fiber ranged from US$ 0.43 (Amazonas) to US$ 2.44 (Maranhão), with an
average of US$ 1. 18, in the national calculation. The explanation for this variation lies in the
logistics in these two states, which is an obstacle to better pricing of the raw material
(AFONSO, 2010).
The minimum price approved for the 2022 harvest of buriti, in the North region, was R$
1.66/kg. This policy allows the generation of income, strengthening the families that make a
living from the activity, and contributes to the sustainable development of biodiversity,
through an instrument to support commercialization, known as the Direct Subsidy to the
Extractive Producer - SDPE, thus encouraging the recovery and conservation of the several
biomes, where extractive activity is present, through organized exploration (CONAB, 2022).
It is projected that the Value Added (VA) for each link in the buriti chain, as well as the
quantity produced, in 2019, the total VA absorbed in the chain was around R$ 3.8 million, in
2040, it is expected a generation of income of BRL 55.4 million, that is, an average growth of

39

generated income of 11% pa Unlike the projected increasing income, there will be a drop in
physical production, in the first year and from 2029 onwards (TNC, 2022).
HISTORY
In Brazil, buriti occurs in the Cerrado, western Caatinga, Pantanal and Amazon biomes. It also
occurs in Bolivia, Peru, Ecuador, Colombia, Venezuela, Trinidad and Tobago, Guyana,
Suriname and French Guiana. The southern limit of the distribution is Mato Grosso do Sul
and the Andes Mountains to the west.
The importance of vegetable fibers dates back to primitive man, and many of the current
commercial fibers have been economically used since ancient times. The fibers originating
from young buritis leaves, still closed, are quite resistant and used mainly for making
hammocks and ropes, and the less resistant fibers are used for making various handicrafts,
such as purses, bags, baskets, hats, sandals, mats, brooms, placemats, cutlery holders,
among others. The adult buriti leaves are used to cover rustic houses.
Buriti occurs naturally in swampy areas where the soil remains saturated throughout the
year, such as low lying rivers banks, lakes, streams and especially swamps (igapó) (SAMPAIO,
2011).
In general, the species has well-defined anthropological, ornamental and economic
importance for the populations of South America. Products made from buriti are widely used
in indigenous and extractive communities in the Amazon; and commercial use in cities in the
north and northeast of Brazil (AFONSO, 2010).
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS AND ENVIRONMENT: AGROFOREST, WILD HARVESTING, PLANTING
Harvesting the fruit is laborious, requiring ripe fruit to be picked from the ground after it has
fallen naturally. Some collectors cut the ripe bunches at the buriti tree, as soon as the fruits
ripen and begin to fall, to avoid being attacked by insects. Flowering begins when the palm
tree is about 8 years old.
To use the fiber, the leaf is harvested and each part of the leaf has a different use. Some
craftsmen are specialized in making furniture with the buriti stem, others make baskets and
tapiti with the splint (hard fiber that covers the stem). There are those who use the entire
straw to cover the roof. The "silk" or "ribbon" is removed from the eye, which is a very fine
fiber that covers the straw. Silk is used to sew handicrafts, such as golden grass, or to make
ropes.
The green leaves that are already open and the new leaves that are still closed, also known
as eyes, are collected mainly from the buritis that are between 4 and 10 m high, but in some
places the collectors climb the larger buritis to collect the leaves. Harvesting is done
throughout the year, whenever there is a need, in the marshes closest to the house, usually
less than 5 km away. To cut the leaf, the collector climbs the buriti tree, using the stalks of
the dry leaves as a ladder, and makes a cut at the base of the stalk with a machete.

40

Buriti can produce up to five eyes (or new leaves) in a year, but most produce between three
and five eyes per year, that is, it takes about four months for a buriti to produce an eye. Each
eye yields about 100 g of silk. Leaf production does not stop in drought or rain. As long as a
maximum of 50% of the eyes produced are harvested, harvesting the eyes does not kill the
buriti tree and neither accelerates nor reduces the production of new leaves (SAMPAIO,
2011).
The occurrence of buriti is associated with areas periodically or permanently flooded or with
poor drainage, and it is common to find the species on the banks of rivers, igapós, igarapés,
springs, paths, swamps, wet clean fields, riparian forests and gallery forests. The buriti, in its
natural environment, can occur with dispersed individuals or forming high-density
populations, in swampy areas, it can be found forming extensive monospecific populations
or together with other palm species, such as Euterpe oleracea Mart. (Açaí) and species of
Oenocarpus (Bacaba) (FERREIRA, 2018).
MATURITY TIME
Solitary stem palm tree, without thorns. It reaches up to 40 meters in height, has large
leaves, a rounded crown and yellowish flowers. It blooms almost all year round, but mainly
from March to August. Fruit production is intense: according to data from Embrapa, five to
seven bunches are produced per year, each of these with 400 to 500 fruits, the longevity of
buriti can reach 85 years.
Flowering begins when the palm tree is about 8 years old; some studies report flowering
between 5 and 11 years. Flowering is annual, producing 3 to 8 interfoliar inflorescences/year.
Flowers produce pollen but not nectar; the palm tree has a very remarkable inflorescence
with a strong fragrance, with coleopteran insects as its main pollinators (FERREIRA, 2018).
There are male and female buritis. The former produce bunches that only result in flowers; in
females, the flowers turn into fruits. Its reddish-brown ellipsoid-shaped fruits have a surface
covered with shiny scales. Even so, it is necessary to wait approximately one year for the
fruits to be ripe and ready for harvesting, which happens between the months of December
and February. The pulp of the fruit is tasty and orange in color, usually accompanied by a pit,
which is the seed of the species. In some cases, however, two lumps or none can be found,
rich in vitamin C and is an energy food (Cerratinga, 2023).
The buriti lives alone or in communities, which require an abundant supply of water in the
soil. It is the waters that carry and spread the seeds of the buriti palm. The hard bark of the
buriti tree is a natural protection against predators and the ingress of water.
PRODUCER PROFILE AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
In the region of Lençóis Maranhenses, up to 30% of the rural population has income
generated by the sale of handicrafts made with buriti silk.
Silk is also of great importance in the Jalapão region (east of Tocantins), where it is widely
used to sew golden grass handicrafts.

41

In addition to the economic aspects, the use of buriti, especially its fibers, is considered a
cultural and identity symbol of the way of life of artisans who use this product (SAMPAIO,
2011).
PRODUCTION PROBLEMS
There are several limitations faced for the development of the buriti production chain:
market consolidation, the small social and productive organization, the high perishability of
the pulp, the high production cost of the oil due to the scarce knowledge of its extraction
technologies, in addition to the irregularity in supply and demand for the product, since the
collection period is short , generating uncertainty in the investment to improve the scenario
as a whole, here understood from collection to final processing (CONAB, 2022).
Inadequate handling or intense removal of the leaves called “eye” can lead to the death of
the individual. The ascent process is a stage of great danger for the "shooter" who, in
addition to the risk of falling, can find venomous animals such as snakes and spiders at the
top of the buritizeiro. Linen treatment is also still quite rudimentary and done manually in
the artisans' homes (Artesanato com Design, 2011).
SUPPLY CHAIN PROBLEMS
The collection of the bud and the extraction of the flax from this buriti leaf, the preparation
of the flax with or without dyeing, the removal of the adult leaf for other uses of the fiber,
are artisanal manual processes that need tax incentives and training in good practices, as
there is the possibility of predatory exploitation and the processes are very rough,
demanding strenuous labor.
Existing public policies are incipient, and the resulting craft products or fibers, although they
play a relevant role in the country's production chain, the commercial valuation practiced in
the Brazilian domestic market and, consequently, the reduced remuneration of producer
associations, put the continuity of transmission of this knowledge in traditional communities,
as values are depreciated (CATTANI, 2016).
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PROCESSING AND SIZING
Among the main actions that could be encouraged, we highlight investments in fiber
processing within municipalities or producing centers, community strengthening and
opening and stimulation of consumer markets.
The adoption of actions and guidelines that help to structure the buriti production chain,
such as technical assistance in the management of enterprises, logistics for production flow,
standardization and certification of production, in addition to raising the quality of the
product, strengthening the Minimum Price Guarantee for Sociobiodiversity Products (PGPMBio), will enable the necessary evolution towards fairer commercialization for all links in the
chain (CONAB, 2022).
CREDIT POTENTIAL/CARBON SEQUESTRATION

42

The buritizais play a fundamental role in the balance of ecosystems, contributing to the
maintenance of soil moisture and water bodies, especially in dry seasons, in addition to
helping to contain the erosion of hydromorphic soils (high humidity), preventing the silting of
rivers, they work as carbon stocks and act as a source of food and a place of shelter and
reproduction for the fauna.
In the scenario with a pricing policy for the social benefit of stored carbon, the share of
Added Value generated in the production sector goes from 47.6% to 72%, the rural
processing industry would go from 18.8% to 22.6% and the rural transformation industry
would increase from 1.3% to 1.9%. On the other hand, the other agents in the chain would
have a reduced participation in the total VA generated. The remuneration of the production
sector with and without the incorporation of carbon pricing. It is observed that the
producer's VA projected with carbon pricing increases the producer's income, and in 2040, it
is expected to reach an income of R$ 37.7 million, while without the pricing policy the
projected income would be in around BRL 19 million (TNC, 2021).
CERTIFICATIONS PROGRAMS
CERTIFICATION

BY-PRODUCTS

Certification organic

Buriti and products derivatives

COMPANY
Imocert

TYPE
Certification based in ISO 17065

RELEVANT SECTORS
The entire process of extraction to the production of fibers, including cooking, bleaching, and
dyeing of the fibers, is carried out by small associations or cooperatives in an artisanal way,
which sell the product directly. There are also specialized companies in the
commercialization of various types of fibers that sell wholesale, with an average cost of US$
16.98 per kilogram of fiber. (SISALSUL, 2013).
IMPORT/EXPORT AND COMPLIANCE RATES
Data for buriti fibers are aggregated with other natural fibers.
BIOCULTURAL PROTECTIONS OF COMMUNITIES OF ORIGIN (NAGOYA/CGEN/ETC.
PROTOCOL)
Brazilian adherence to the Nagoya Protocol, Legislative Decree No. 136 of 08/11/2020,
ratified by the national executive in March 2021, can leverage the buriti fiber production
chain due to the use and exploitation of the genetic heritage by other countries.
REGULATORY INFORMATION
Harmonized System Number: 5305 Coconut, abaca, ramie, and other vegetable textile fibers
not specified elsewhere.

43

2.8 CACAU (Theobroma cacao) – COCOA-ALMONDS
Andiconic species of the Amazon that can bring enormous benefits to the region. From the
environmental point of view, it is a perennial plant and native to that biome, when cultivated
in agroforestry systems, it can promote the recovery of degraded areas, the recomposition of
legal reserves and the capture and storage of carbon. From an economic point of view, its
production has enormous potential for income generation. From a social point of view, cocoa
cultivation has excellent potential to generate jobs and strengthen family farming. The cocoa
value chain is important for its ability to build regional economies from the generation of
jobs and absorb labor in rural and urban industries in industries. Cocoaproducts can be used
as raw material for different industrial segments, making the chain relatively competitive to
the detriment of other agro-industrial chain (AMAZÔNIA 2020, 2023).

PRODUCT
Cacoa almonds
SUBPRODUCT
Cocoa powder; cocoa paste; cocoa butter, fat and oil; and waste.
CURRENT MARKET SIZE
Record world production of 5,024 million tons was achieved in the 2020/21 harvest. In terms
of share of total world production, Africa is expected to remain the largest cocoa producing
region, accounting for 77% of world cocoa production. The shares for the Americas; and Asia
and Oceania are likely to be 17% and 6%, respectively (ICCO, 2021). Currently Brazil is ranked
seventh in cocoa production, with 265,000 tons (2020). The North (Amazon) region leads
national production with 140,450 tons, 53% of Brazilian production (Banco do Nordeste,
2021). In 2020 the total value of cocoa production in the Brazilian Legal Amazon was US$
736,496,756.25 (58%), with the state of Pará contributing 93% (IBGE, 2021).
PROJECTED FUTURE MARKET SIZE
Growth of global production is forecast to average around 2% per year, below the 20-year
average of 3%, while growth in global consumption will be approximately 3%, similar to
previous averages (Banco do Nordeste, 2021).
VOLUMES SOLD/CONSUMED
Brazil is the fifth largest cocoa producer in world trade (2022). The state of Pará accounts for
almost half of national production. The planted area in the state is estimated at about
210,000 hectares.

44

In the last ten years (2011-2020), in real terms, with values deflated by the FGV IGP-DI, the
VBPA-Cocoa increased by 53%, from R$2.5 billion in 2011 to R$3.8 billion in 2020. This
performance was driven by the state of Pará, where the value of total production increased
by 204%, compared to the 6% increase registered by producers in Bahia (FIESP, 2021). In
2020, the main categories of products sold by value were 1) cocoa powder (48%), 2) cocoa
paste (28%), 3) cocoa butter, fat and oil (22%) and 4) residues (2%) (Mercado do Cacau,
2022).
PRICE TRENDS
Prices paid to producers varied among Amazon states. In July 2022, for example, the price
per kilo varied from a low of R$/kg 8.84 in Amazonas to a high of R$/kg 11.56 in Pará, with an
average price of R$/kg 10.30 for the region (CONAB , 2022). The global market price in
December of 2022 was $2.51/kg (INDEXMUNDI, 2023).
HISTORY
Cocoa originates from the Amazon River, from where it expanded in two main directions. The
'Criollo' spread northward to the Orinoco River, into Central America and southern Mexico,
cultivated by the Aztecs and Mayans. The 'Forastero' spread through the Amazon basin,
towards the Guianas. During much of the colonial period, cocoa was the main export product
of the Brazilian Amazon. Systematic cultivation in Brazil began at the end of the 17th century,
but most of the cacao during this phase was collected from the wild until the beginning of
the 19th century (HALLA, 2020).
At the beginning of the 20th century, the center of cocoa production moved to SE Bahia,
where a plantation system was developed that reached its peak in the 1960s, when the
country was the global leader in this market, with an average annual production of 165
thousand tons. In the 1970s, leadership in cocoa production was taken over by the Ivory
Coast. During this period, the planted area in Brazil remained relatively stable, with 441
thousand hectares, a drop of 5% in relation to the 60's.
Currently, the largest Brazilian cocoa-producing states are Pará and Bahia, which together
account for 95% of the planted area and 93% of national production. Although the area of
cocoa planted in Bahia is much larger than that in the Amazon, its low productivity, only 244
kg per ha, compared to the national average of 435 kg/ha, combined with the effects of the
Witch's broom disease. contributed to a 30% decline in Bahian production from 156,000 tons
in 2011 to 110,000 tons in 2020. As a result, the state lost national leadership to Pará (IBGE –
PAM and LSPA), which experienced significant gains in cultivated area and productivity.
Between 2011 and 2020 cocoa production in Pará increased 76% in planted area (from 85
thousand to 150 thousand hectares) and 126% in production, from 64,000 to 144,000 tons,
reflecting the increase in average productivity from 750 kg/ha in 2011 to 964 kg/ha in 2020
(IBGE, 2021).
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS & ENVIRONMENT: AGROFORESTRY, WILD HARVEST, PLANTATION

45

There are three main cultivation systems for cocoa in Brazil, agroforestry systems (SAF), the
cocoa-cabruca system (planted directly in the forest) and cultivation in full sunlight; the first
occurs predominantly in the North region and the last two are used in Bahia.
Agroforestry Systems
SAFs are a preferred land use option due to their high potential to provide higher returns
from the variety of plants included in the system. Shade is essential to ensure optimal
performance of young cacao trees. Consequently, cocoa has always been cultivated in
agroforestry systems in the Amazon region. Traditional agroforestry Systems combine
production of commercial crops and food crops such as cassava, açaí palm and rubber trees,
with cocoa. There has been relatively little commercial exploitation of forest reserves, where
cocoa trees could be planted together with other local species such as Brazil nuts, essential
oils and fruits native to the region in semi-extractive systems (GONTIJO, 2020), pink cedar
(Cedrela odorata) and Brazil nut (Bertholletia excelsa).
TERM OF MATURITY
Cocoa trees vary in height from 5 to 10 meters. Flowers insert directly into the trunks and
branches. The fruits are large capsules, ovoid to oblong in shape, with a thick, dense shell.
Each capsule contains between 20 and 40 almonds covered in an acidic pulp. The cocoa tree
begins to produce in its second year and between the 2nd and 5th year trees fruit
throughout the year. The harvest takes place twice a year, the main harvest runs from
October to early December, while the early harvest occurs from May to September. After five
years of intense production, the pace of production slows and trees generally produce only
twice a year. Between the 12th and 14th year trees reach their highest level of production
and continues to produce at this level for several decades. Production begins to decline
when trees are around sixty or seventy years old.
PRODUCER PROFILE AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
According to the IBGE, cocoa production generates around 340,000 direct and indirect jobs in
Pará and generates up to R$ 1.7 billion per year (Mercado do Cacau, 2022). Consequently,
cocoa production plays an important socioeconomic role in SE Bahia and Pará. According to
the 2017 Ag Census there are 93 thousand establishments producing cocoa in the country,
with 69,000 in Bahia (74% of the total) and 18 thousand in Pará (19%), which together
represent 93% of all agricultural properties dedicated to cocoa production. On average, each
establishment employs 3 people, so the crop generates 269,000 direct jobs, and an unknown
number of part-time jobs during the harvest period (IBGE, 2017).
PRODUCTION and Supply Chain ISSUES: The vast majority of cocoa producers are family
farmers who cannot afford to pay an employee. Consequently, farmers depend on family
labor, especially during harvest periods, which often means removing children from school.
The low price paid by middlemen is one of the determining factors for the occurrence of
child labor. Other issues include, slow development of the cocoa supply chain is attributed to
the lack of financing for supply chain managers and farmers; who need "bankable" special

46

purpose vehicles; Longer-term offtake commitments and links to agribusiness are needed to
unlock finance and operate at scale; Finally there is a need to consolidate small farms
(OIT/MPT, 2018).
Disease: Cocoa production in Brazil still faces the problem of witches' broom disease. This
disease decimated the Brazilian cocoa industry in 1989/1990 in Bahia and national
production has still not fully recovered. Before 1990, Brazil was among the three largest
producers in the world.
CARBON CREDIT / SEQUESTRATION POTENTIAL
Based on the current prices paid per ton of carbon on the international market, the value of
carbon credits for cacao, approximately R$241,000,000, could be added to cocoa's market
value, 61% of which would be concentrated in the state of Pará.
CERTIFICATION PROGRAMS
Latin America is the leader in the premium segment of world cocoa production, called “fine”
or “flavored” by the International Cocoa Organization (ICO. Fine or flavored cocoa can have a
premium price of up to 20% above the global price and is highly sought after by luxury
chocolate manufacturers.
Currently, only Cocoa only 3% of Brazilian production qualifies for the quality market
(Mercado do Cacau, 2021). Currently, only three states produce fine cocoa: Bahia, Espirito
Santo and Pará, but several produce types of cocoa, such as organic, wild and bulk (GIVAGO,
2010). While global market growth is low, there is growing demand for premium chocolate,
and boutique brands are on the rise.
RELEVANT INDUSTRIES
The main chocolate producing industries in the world are installed in Brazil, such as Nestlé,
Garoto, Mars, Ferrero, Mondelez and Arcor. This advantage gives the country the possibility
of adding value and internalizing the jobs and income generated in the activity. The trading,
processing and manufacture of cocoa are concentrated in a few international companies.
The AIPC is formed by companies Cargill, Barry Callebaut and Olam, which together process
95% of Brazilian cocoa (IBGE, 2020).
CGEN/NAGOYA BIOCULTURAL RIGHTS AND PROTECTION CONCERNS
The Brazilian adhesion to the Nagoya Protocol, Legislative Decree No. 136 of 11/08/2020 was
ratified by the national executive only in March 2021
REGULATORY INFORMATION
INCI Name: Theobroma cacao seed butter
Harmonized System Code: Cocoa beans, whole or broken, raw or roasted HS Code 180100
EINECS/ELINCS No.: 283-480-6
CAS Number: 84649-99-0 / 8002-31-1

47

2.9 CASTANHA DO BRASIL (Bertholletia excelsa HBK) - BRAZIL NUTS
The tree nut tree is one of the largest in the Amazon forest and Brazil nuts are an important
forest product that is a significant seasonal income source for traditional and Indigenous
peoples in some parts of the Amazon. The Brasil nut has high nutritional value, rich in
calcium, phosphorus, magnesium and potassium and also has a relatively high selenium
content, the main constituent of antioxidant enzymes. Because it takes around 16 years to
begin producing nuts, with a few important exceptions, virtually the entire annual crop is
collected from groves in the forest. Brazil nuts have a well-established export market, with
significant potential for growth (SILVA JÚNIOR, 2016).

PRODUCTS AND SUBPRODUCTS
Brazil nuts: Brazil nuts are an important component of mixed nuts and are widely used as an
ingredient in candies.
Brazil nut oil: Is a clear, yellowish oil with a light texture. It used in a variety of high-end
skincare products.
Brazil nut wood: while Brazil nut wood is of high quality, felling of trees for timber is illegal in
Brazil
CURRENT MARKET SIZE
The total production of Brazil nuts in the Amazon region is around 69,658 metric tons comes
from three countries, Brazil (33,118 mt), Bolívia (30,843 mt) and Peru (5,697). The total value
of Brazilian production was R$98,551,000 in 2020. The largest producer is the State of
Amazonas (11,707mt, with a total value of R$ 34,785,000), virtually all of which is harvested
from the forest. Approximately, 75% of Brazil nuts harvested in Brazil are used by the food
industry. Brazil's participation in the international market is low, representing only 5% of
national production (IBGE, 2020; INTERELOS , 2022).
PROJECTED FUTURE MARKET SIZE
While global consumption of nuts grows at 7% per year, national production of Brazil nuts is
stagnant. In recent years the exports of Brazil nuts has declined from around 70% of national
production to only 20% reflecting increased consumption in the domestic market. In part this

48

shift to the domestic market is due to the presence of aflatoxins, which has largely closed the
European market to Brazilian Brazil nuts (CONAB, 2022; INTERELOS , 2022) .
VOLUMES SOLD/CONSUMED
The total value of Brazil nut exports from the Amazon is (US$) 12 million. Exports to the
global market totaled 24 million in the period 2017-2019. Exports are predominantly shelled
nuts (Bertoholletia excelsa) and the main destinations are Peru (38%) and Bolivia (16%)
(AMAZÔNIA2030, 2021).
PRICE TREND
The average price paid to the producer is R$5.4/kg (CONAB, 2022; INTERELOS, 2022) May
/22. In 2021, wholesale prices in international markets: the average import price for Brazil
nuts is $1,577 per ton, Price of smaller quantities: 25 lbs at US$ 6.50/lb
HISTORY
Mature Brazil nut trees grow almost exclusively in primary forest and as remnants in
degraded forests and pastures. Brazil nut trees are among the tallest tree species in the
forest, can live for up to 800 years and reach 60m in height and 3 m in diameter. Brazil nut
trees grow in groves, called castanhais, which are thought to be evidence of indigenous
forest management practices, which often involves planting seeds of important trees species
in abandoned swiddens. For much of the last couple of centuries Brazil nut groves have been
controlled by local land owners and traders. The collection and sale of Brazil nuts was
organized in the traditional paternalistic system, known as the aviamento system, a system of
debt peonage In which many local Indigenous and traditional peoples through which local
traders and landowners controlled labor and organized the collection and extraction of the
forest products that sustained the Amazon economy. During the 20th century a significant
proportion of the Brazil nut trade in Brazil was controlled by a single family. With the
expansion of the agricultural frontier and associated deforestation from the mid 20th century
on, many important Brazil nut groves in the eastern and southern portions of the basin were
destroyed and the land converted to pasture. While the government prohibited the felling of
Brazil nut trees and the sale of Brazil nut wood in an attempt to stop this destruction, these
efforts were only partially effective. The Castanha do Pará is now called the Castanha do
Brasil and the main Brazil nut producing areas today are in the western and southwestern
portions of the basin. With the great increase in the number and total area of Indigenous
Territories and Extractive reserves in the last few decades, much of the remaining area of
Brazil nut groves is now protected in reserves and responsibility for managing groves and
collecting and processing Brazil nuts has been taken over by community associations and
cooperatives.
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS AND ENVIRONMENT: AGROFORESTRY, WILD HARVESTING,
PLANTING

49

Because Brazil nut trees take an average of 15 years to begin producing, there ha been very
few efforts to cultivate Brazil nut trees. However, they can be a promising species for certain
kinds of agroforestry systems. For example, in the RECCA project in western Rondônia
colonists developed agroforestry systems that included Brazil nut trees, cupuaçu and
pupunha, among other species. Planting of Brazil nut trees has been encouraged as an
agroforestry component in reforestation programs. Brazil nut trees are also included in
integrated forestry consortiums (CFI) with andiroba and ipê. While much more is needed
there is considerable research and innovation seeking to improve management systems as
well as develop technology for harvesting, processing and marketing Brazil nuts (COSTA et al.,
2009; EMBRAPA, 2022).
TERM OF MATURITY
Brazil nut trees reach heights between 30m and 50m with diameters between 1m and 2m, or
more. Its fruit take more than a year to mature, reach an average weight of 2 kg, and contain
between 8 and 24 seeds. Brazil nut collection takes place during the rainy season, between
December and June when the nut pods mature and fall to the ground (WWF-Brasil, 2022;
BEGIATO, MENEGHINI, 2013).
PRODUCER PROFILE AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
Since the rise of the Rubber Tappers and Forest Peoples Movements in the 1980s, the size
and organizational and administrative capacity of cooperatives and community associations
has greatly improved. Today in Acre and other areas, most Brazil nut groves are managed
through these local organizations, which are developing new products and innovative
solutions in processing, and packaging to increase the value of Brazil nuts and eliminate
sanitary problems such as aflatoxins.
Since the rise of the Rubber Tappers and Forest Peoples Movements in the 1980s, the size
and organizational and administrative capacity of cooperatives and community associations
has greatly improved. Today in Acre and other areas, most Brazil nut groves are managed
through these local organizations, which are developing new products and innovative
solutions in processing, and packaging to increase the value of Brazil nuts and eliminate
sanitary problems such as aflatoxins.
CERTIFICATION PROGRAMS
CERTIFICATION

BY-PRODUCTS COMPANY

ORGANIC BRAZIL
Organic farming Europe
(EU)

Brazil nut with
USDA-ORGANIC
– shell
ECOCERT
Agricultura orgânica nos Brazil
nuts FSC
EUA -USDA NOP
without shell
FDA
ECO

CERT

COSMOS

TYPE
Allows organic commercialization within Brazil;
It allows marketing of organic products in the
European Union, applies to agricultural raw
materials and food products;
Allows marketing of organic products in the United
States;
Ensures that your items meet all necessary safety
and quality standards
Allows the commercialization of organic or natural

50
ORGANIC
IBD ORGÂNICO
ORGANIC FARMING –
European Commission (EC)
KOSHER – PARVE

HACCP – APCC

FSC Certification

cosmetics worldwide;
Guarantees the quality and origin of organic
products
Marketing of organic products that meet the
standards established to the European Union
market;
Ensures that manufactured products meet the
specific standards governing the Orthodox Jewish
food diet
Food safety in the processes regarding risks and
hazards, ensuring the standard of quality, integrity
and safety of the products to consumers
Promotion of its responsible forest management
and the commercialization of wood-based products
from certified forests

CREDIT/CARBON SEQUESTRATION POTENTIAL
As one of the largest trees in the forest, and it’s use in reforestation scheme Brazil nut trees
could be of relevance in sequestering carbon (EMBRAPA, 2022).
IMPORT/EXPORT TARIFFS AND COMPLIANCE
Brazil nuts are GRAS compliant in the US (widely sold for consumption) and have strict
import restrictions in Europe and the US regarding above acceptable concentrations of
aflatoxin. Tariffs are at 0% in the US and EU, but at 32.8% in Korea (VIEIRA et. al,. 2022;
CNA,2021).
RELEVANT INDUSTRIES
Food: Brazil nuts are used as ingredients in processed foods such as chocolate bars/cereals,
cakes, biscuits, in nut mixes, snacks (appetizers with dried and salted nuts); porridge and
biscuits). health and health foods and consumed in trail mixes with dried fruit and grains and
included in Kosher diets, and exported to Israel.
Cosmetics: Brazil nuts are also used in the cosmetics industry (presence of selenium,
antioxidant element), (CONAB, 2022; BEGIATO, MENEGHINI, 2013)
Retailers
Retailers
COOPAVAM - Cooperative of Rural Farmers of the Vale do
Amanhecer
Borello Alimentos Ltd. – EPP
Go Health Foods Ind. And with. Food Ltd.
Beraca Ingredients natural Ltd
Children 's Association Project Agroforestry _ Reca and
Cooperativa Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry of the
RECA Project

REGULATORY INFORMATION
Inci name : Bertholletia excelsa seed oil
Harmonized System Code : 1515.90

Site
https://coopavam.org.br/
https://www.facebook.com/borello.castanhas/
https://www.ghf.com.br/
http://www.beraca.com/
https://www.projetoreca.com.br/

51

EINECS No : 310-127-6
number : 356065-50-4

52

2.10 CUMARU (Dipteryx odorata) – CUMARU'S SEED
The Cumaru, also known by a number of popular names: Iron cumber; cumarurana;
cumaru-true; yellow-cumaru; large-leaf ridge; muimapagé; champagne; Amazon cumaru;
cumaruzeiro; cumbaru; cumaru-de-cheiro, is a plant exclusive to the Amazon rain forest. I
Native species, not endemic to Brazil, are distributed in the North (Acre, Amazonas, Amapá,
Pará, Rondônia, Roraima), Northeast (Maranhão) and Midwest (Mato Grosso) regions.

PRODUCTS
Almonds/Seed: Also known as tonka bean or tonka bean, it has a high concentration of the
aromatic coumarin, which is used in the preparation of anticoagulant drugs such as
bishydroxycoumarin (dicumarol) and wafarin (coumadin).
BY-PRODUCT: Natural oil and extract: Coumarin, an aromatic essential oil widely used in the
perfumery and cosmetics industry, with great demand in the international market.
Beer: The beer company Amazon Beer, produces beer of citrus and fruity aroma matured
with Cumaru seeds and 5.7% of alcohol content (IPA Cumaru) (BRAZIL, 2022; BREJAS, 2019) .
CURRENT MARKET SIZE
The Brazilian plant extraction of cumaru, 2020/2021 harvest, totaled 233tons with an
estimated production value of R$5.7 million. The states of Pará (167t) and Amazonas (63t)
are responsible for 98.7% (230t) of this production. The commercialized production of
cumaru runs through short local supply chains and long extra-local supply chains, destined
for the Brazilian market, and countries such as Japan, the United States and Europe
(IMAFLORA, 2021, IBGE, 2021).
PROJECTED FUTURE MARKET SIZE
In the period 2010/2021, Brazilian production of cumaru grew 1.5% annually, with a forecast
of maintaining this growth in the coming years (IBGE, 2021). In the Amazon region, mainly in
the state of Pará, the projection for 2040, average production growth of 3% p.a., and average

53

growth of income generated of 6% p.a., reaching up to 10% at the end of the period (2040)
(TNC, 2021).
VOLUMES SOLD/CONSUMED
In 2020, 3.5 tons of dried seeds were sold, generating R$ 177.8 thousand (marketed to an
English company for cosmetic and medicinal use). In 2019, the total VA absorbed in the chain
was around R$ 566.4 thousand (TNC, 2021).
PRICE TREND
Price per ton (R$/t) (1994-2016) averaged R$ 5514.30/t. The average value corrected in R$ /
kg by the IPA wholesale price index was R$ 6.2/kg. For projects aimed at fair markets, such as
the Origins Brazil project that supports direct trade between community associations and
cosmetics industries, the price has reached US$ 15.00 per kilogram of dry seed in 2016 and
2017 (MOTA, 2018).
HISTORY
Cumaru seeds are widely used in the production of essential oils, perfumes, cosmetics,
medicines, food, tobacco and beverages, due to its aromatic and therapeutic properties. The
seeds of cumaru contain an aromatic essential oil widely used in the perfumery and
cosmetics industry, with great demand in the international marketl. Coumarin is often used
to replace vanilla in recipes that take milk, such as puddings, cakes, pies, in addition to other
foods and beverages, such as beer (MOTA, 2018).
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS AND ENVIRONMENT: AGROFORESTRY, WILD HARVESTING,
PLANTING
Although cumarin is obtained primarly from natural forests, it can also be produced in
commercial plantations, in agroforestry systems through reforestation projects. Despite its
wide distribution in the Amazon Region, Dipteryx odorata is on the list of priority species for
conservation in the Amazon Biome), due to deforestation and its value as a timber species
(MOTA, 2018).
TERM OF MATURITY
Its flowering occurs from August to October, in Pará, from September to October, in the
Amazon and the ripe fruits occur from April to July, in Pará. In the Amazon, this species
begins fruit production at 4 or 5 years of age. The number of seeds per kilogram is
approximately 245 units. It annually produces abundant amount of viable seeds. The
medium of dispersal of its seeds occurs barochorically (by gravity) due to its weight, and also
by means of rodents and bats (CUMARUM AMAZÔNIA, 2023).
PRODUCER PROFILE AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
The collection of Tonga beans is usually organized by local associations and cooperatives of
family farmers. The commercialization of the production generates income and benefits the
local economy. The collection of cumaru is carried out by the entire family. Collection of

54

cumaru fruits/ beans does not affect the trees and is consideres to be sustainable (TNC,
2021; MOTA, 2018).
PRODUCTION PROBLEMS
Because the species ocurrs at low densities averaging 3 trees per hectare, the establishment
of community cumaru plantations could increase local production while reducing the time
spent in collecting the beans. Because coumarin can be toxic at high concentrations,
coumarin cannot be ingested or inhaled, and people involved in collecting and processing
beans should follow strict protocols. Because of pressure from deforestation and logging,
local associations and cooperatives should establish management systems to conserve local
stands (MOTA, 2018).
SUPPLY CHAIN ISSUES
I do not encourage fair marketing for communities so they don't rely on middlemen. To
ensure product quality and expand access to the international market, community
associations should construct warehouses and install seed dryers so their product meets
international market standards (MOTA, 2018).
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PROCESSING AND DIMENSIONS
Andall of productive viability as well as conservation of the species are important for regional
development.
Further study of the cumaru market can help to understand how it is possible to stimulate
demand and add value to the regional product, with competitive market prices compared to
the substitutes already existing in the market.
CREDIT POTENTIAL/CARBON SEQUESTRATION
While cumaru trees represent a considerable volume of forest carbon, some authors argue
that carbon offsets would have little impact on the distribution of value added or the
projected gross income (TNC, 2021).
CERTIFICATION PROGRAMS
CERTIFICATION

BY-PRODUC
TS

Origens Brasil

Seed
cumaru

TYPE

COMPANY

of Origens
Brasil°

Network that promotes sustainable business in the Amazon in
priority areas of conservation, with guarantee of origin,
transparency, traceability of the production chain and promoting
ethical trade.

RELEVANT SECTORS
Retailer
Retailers
Cooperativa Mista dos Povos e Comunidades
Tradicionais da Calha Norte (COOPAFLORA)
Manioca Brasil

Site
https://www.instagram.com/coopaflora/
maniocabrasil.com.br

55
Flor de Jambu

flordejambu.com

IMPORT/EXPORT TARIFFS AND COMPLIANCE FEES
The tariffs will be given according to trade agreements, tariff preferences and legislation
applicable to foreign trade (BRAZIL, 2023).
BIOCULTURAL
PROTECTIONS
PROTOCOL/CGEN/ETC.)

OF

COMMUNITIES

OF

ORIGIN

(NAGOYA

The Brazilian adherence to the Nagoya Protocol, Legislative Decree No. 136 of 08/11/2020,
ratified by the national executive that took place in March 2021, can leverage the production
chain of cumaru due to the use and exploitation of genetic heritage by other countries.
REGULATORY INFORMATION
Inci Name: Dipteryx odorata
Harmonized System Code: Has only Global Product Classification - CGP

56

2.11 CUPUAÇU (Theobroma grandiflorum)
Native fruit of the Amazon region, it belongs to the Sterculiaceae family (same as cocoa) with
production concentrated in most of the states of the northern region: Amazonas, Pará, Acre,
Rondônia and Roraima. Used in Brazilian cuisine, with excellent industrial use. It has several
cultivars - BRS Careca (BRS 337), BRS Fartura (BRS 338), BRS Duquesa (BRS 340), BRS Curinga
(BRS 346), BRS Goliath (BRS 349) - with high productivity and good resistance to diseases
produced by the Brazilian company Embrapa Amazônia Oriental, as a technological
reinforcement and value addition inputs for positioning cupuaçu with a market in national
and international expansion with potential as an important bioeconomy asset, forest
preservation and local development (EMBRAPA, 2022; 2019).

PRODUCTS
Pulp - Rich in proteins, carbohydrates, fibers and enzymes, marketed in frozen form and / or
used in the preparation of food. Seed (almonds with high fat content a) - extraction of
butter for the cosmetic and pharmaceutical industry, and production of cupulate, a product
similar to chocolate, being more advantageous bythe lower price, contains less theobromine
than cocoa (substance more stimulating than caffeine) , and has 33.44% more protein in
relation to cocoa (EMBRAPA, 2022).
CURRENT MARKET SIZE
Cupuaçu production reached 21,240 tons in 2017 (annual), with a total value of R$ 54. 822.
000. The largest producer was the State of Amazonas (6,002t, with a valor of R $ 16,646,918)
(IBGE, 2017).
PROJECTED FUTURES MARKET SIZE
Growth of 10.3% p.a., (2019). The global market is expected to reach $62 million by 2030
(primarily cupuaçu butter), with a CAGR (Compound Annual Growth Rate) of approximately
6.3% between 2020-2030 (TNC, 2021).
VOLUMES SOLD/CONSUMED
Exports totaled 8.8 tons in 2021 (US$ 28,407), the average price per kg was US$ 3.2 d the
cupuaçu pulp (4th Level- 20079926 – PURÊS/POUPA DE CUPUAÇU), having as main buyer

57

countries: Africa, Oceania, Angola, Liberia, Marshal Island, United States, Netherlands and
others (AGROTAST, 2021).
PRICE TREND
The export price is on average UR$ 3.2 per kg of pulp (AGROTAST, 2021).
HISTORY
The cupuaçu, related to cocoa, has long been a cultivated in Amazonian house gardens, in
agroforestry systems and fruits have been collected from the wild where they are available.
In the late 1980s and early 1990s there was great interest in cupuaçu as an important new
export crop and cultivated area expanded rapidly throughout the Amazon. The fruit is
quintessentially Amazonian, with a powerful, exotic and alluring flavor, and is widely
consumed in ice cream, cremes, juices and cakes. Production suffered from the lack of cold
chain infrastructure to handle the abundance of pulp during the harvest season and up to
40% of the harvest rotted in the fields as colonist isolated by impassable roads during the
rainy season were unable to get their harvest to market. More recently, production has been
affected by infestations of witches broom. EMBRAPA has developed technology with cultivars
of high productivity, resistance to witch's broom disease and advantages in terms of yield
that can reach 14 tons per hectare (EMBRAPA, 2022; 2019). It remains to be seen if with the
resolution of supply problems and greatly improved cold chain infrastructure, demand for
cupuaçu products takes off. Thus far, cupuaçu’s nonfood uses such as cupuaçu butter made
from the seeds have driven growth in demand. Perhaps now with the resolution of
production and supply chain issues cupuaçu will finally live up to earlier expectations.
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS AND ENVIRONMENT: AGROFORESTRY, WILD HARVESTING,
PLANTING
Cupuaçu is largely produced in agroforestry systems, approximately 14,805 tons (2017) wide
adaptability and high potential for expanding production using large-scale intercropping to
restore of degraded areas. The Supply of wild harvested cupuaçu is stagnant overall and in
decline in many areas due to habitat loss, the higher labor costs of extraction and logistical
challenges of delivering fresh fruit to market (OLIVEIRA, 2013; IBGE, 2017).
TERM OF MATURITY
The production of fruits occurs from two to three years after planting, with a long shelf life,
more than a decade of production after the first harvest, can reach on average 12 fruits per
tree. The fruit can reach 30cm in length with an average of 1.2 kg in weight (EMBRAPA,
2022; 2019).
PRODUCER PROFILE AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
Cupuaçu has traditional been cultivated by small scale producers and processed and
marketed through local associations and coperatives. Cupuaçu has had strongly positive
impacts on smallholder livelihoods including increased income from agroforestry systems

58

and employment in local processing operations and through strengthening of local
associations and cooperatives (EMBRAPA, 2019).
PRODUCTION PROBLEMS
The main problem has been witches broom, a fungus (Monoliophthora perniciosa (Stahel)) ,
which attacks the leaves of cupuaçuzeiros, and reduces the productivity of affected plants.
Traditionally, farmers have avoided the problem through consortia that separate inidividual
plants. Development of resistant varieties is likely to eventually eliminate the problem and
make possible more intensive production systems (EMBRAPA, 2022; 2019).
SUPPLY CHAIN ISSUES
Cupuaçu production and marketing have been plagued by supply chains issues related to
sanitary issues and harvest losses due to inadequate cold chain infrastructure. Lack of
hygiene with manual separation of pulp from seeds ha been a frequent problem, which has
been largely resolved through mechanical pulp extraction and through educational programs
in best hygiene practices. Greater access to local refrigeration facilities and improved rainy
season roads have helped reduce loss of product after harvest. Other problems are related to
the absence of investment and tax incentives, technical assistance and the absence of
financial mechanisms to pay for environmental services that provided by agroforestry
systems (EMBRAPA, 2022; 2019).
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PROCESSING AND DIMENSIONS
To achieve higher productivity, it is recommended to adopt cultural treatments available for
the crop, so that the cultivars expose their productive potentials, and for processing the
installation of agro-industries for larger-scale production and product quality assurance. It is
necessary rural development policies in science, technology and innovation, credit and
technical assistance directed to traditional communities based on agroforestry systems, and
creation of certification seals of environmental services, in order to prove the origin of the
product and sustainability in its production, adding value to the chain (EMBRAPA,
2022; 2019).
CREDIT POTENTIAL/CARBON SEQUESTRATION
Cupuaçu has the potential for better consortiums, especially in agroforestry systems, due to
the selectivity of cultivation in environments that promote the restoration of productivity in
degraded areas. With investment in technology and research in bioeconomy, Brazil presents
potential in the global agenda of sustainability and carbon economy. But there is an absence
of pricing policy and payment for the carbon stored and avoided emission, which enables the
aggregation of value of the products of sociobiodiversity produced in the territories of
common use (EMBRAPA, 2022; 2019).
CERTIFICATION PROGRAMS
CERTIFICATION
ORGANIC BRAZIL

BY-PRODUCTS
Manteiga

TYPE

COMPANY

de ECOCERT

Allows

organic

commercialization

59
cupuaçu
USDA-ORGANIC – Agricultura orgânica
nos EUA -USDA NOP

within Brazil
Allows marketing of organic products
in the United States

RELEVANT INDUSTRIES
Food, cosmetics and pharmaceuticals.
Retailer
Amazon Oil Ind. and Com. of Eireli Vegetable Oils
From Mendes Chocolate da Amazônia
Flor of Jambu
COOPAVAM - Cooperative of Rural Farmers of the Dawn
Valley

Site
https://www.amazonoil.com.br/
https://www.demendes.com.br/amabela-65
https://flordejambu.com/para-empresas/
https://coopavam.org.br/

IMPORT/EXPORT TARIFFS AND COMPLIANCE
Tariffs will be given according to trade agreements, tariff preferences and legislation
applicable to foreign trade (BRAZIL, 2023).
CGEN/NAGOYA BIOCULTURAL RIGHTS AND PROTECTION CONCERNS
The Brazilian adherence to the Nagoya Protocol, Legislative Decree No. 136 of 08/11/2020,
ratified by the national executive that took place in March 2021, can leverage the production
chain of cupuaçu due to the use and exploitation of genetic heritage by other countries.
REGULATORY INFORMATION
Name INCI: Theobroma grandiflorum
Harmonized System Code: 2007.99 - other (20.07 - Jams, jellies, marmalades, fruit purees
and pastes, obtained by cooking, whether or not with added sugar or other sweetening
matter)
NCM: 2007.99.26

60

2.12 MURUMURU (Astrocaryum murumuru)
Murumuru is a small palm with a thorny trunk, Astrocaryum murumuru, also known as
mumbaca or mambacuçu. Currently its main use is in the cosmetics industry. The oil
extracted from murumuru almonds is transformed into a semi-solid fat, called murumuru
butter and used in the manufacture of soaps, creams and shampoos by companies such as
Natura (CONAB, 2022).

PRODUCT
Seeds or almonds – the oil extracted from murumuru almonds is transformed into a
semi-solid fat, murumuru butter, and used in the cosmetics industry to make soaps, creams
and shampoos and in the paint industry as a dryer. It is also used in the pharmaceutical
industries.
BY-PRODUCT
Pulp – not used commercially, despite being edible, slightly sweet; oil can also be extracted
and used in human and animal food;
Biofuel: Biodiesel produced from murumuru oil has good ignition quality and high oxidative
stability.
Uses from other parts of the plant - fertilizer, handicrafts, fiber, forage, commercial wood,
cover straw, as an ornamental plant.
CURRENT MARKET SIZE
The global murumuru butter market was valued at $802 million in 2021, and is projected to
reach $1.8 billion by 2031, growing at a CAGR of 8.4% from 2022 to 2031 (ANINDITA;
ROSHAN, 2022).
Despite that value of the global murmuru market, murumuru was classified, in a study
carried out by TNC (2021), as a product without information on scale or growth.
The TNC 2021 study of bioeconomy products in Pará estimated the gross value of rural
murumuru production at U$ 11.1 thousand in 2019. The total added value was estimated at
U$ 24.4 thousand; 0.002% of the total (TNC, 2021).
PROJECTED FUTURE MARKET SIZE

61

The global market for murumuru is projected to reach $1.8 billion by 2031, growing at a
CAGR of 8.4% from 2022 to 2031(ANINDITA; ROSHAN, 2022).
In recent years there has been an increase in demand for murumuru seed, mainly from the
United States, which orders large volumes, generating greater demand than the current
supply, which does not exceed five to six thousand tons per year, well below industrial
demand (EMBRAPA, 2022).
VOLUMES SOLD/CONSUMED
Murumuru butter is produced primarily in the states of Pará, Amapá, and Acre In the last
decade approximately 25 thousand tons of murumuru coconuts (EMBRAPA, 2022) were
exported.
Conab conducts a survey on the sale of murumuru fruit in markets in the states of Acre and
Pará. In the annual assessment, in the state of Acre, the price per kilo of murumuru fruit
varied by 40%. A factor that has been decisive for the development of the supply chain is the
market demand from large cosmetics companies, which are very interested in murumuru
seeds. Murumuru sales volume and prices have been highly dependent on the activities of
these large companies operating in the region. This activity has been more intense in the
Pará region due to the presence of representatives of cosmetics and pharmaceutical
companies (CONAB, 2022) .
PRICE TREND
In the competitive international cosmetics market, Brazilian murumuru fat or butter has
been sold in the wholesale sector with prices ranging from US$12.95 to US$16.69/kg, and
orders ranging from 200 to 50,000 kg. For retail purchases, the price of a kilogram of butter
has already been quoted at US$85.00/kg (EMBRAPA, 2022) .
Examples: Wholesale prices for murumuru butter found on the internet:
3.5 lbs, $118.63, 7.5 lbs, $209.86 and 44 lbs, $1,108.43 (Natural Sourcing, 2023).
Murumuru Butter - Natural Unrefined - 39.7 lb (18 Kg) -$839.00
offered by Paris Fragrances & Cosmetics Supplies, INC Store (AMAZON, 2023).
A cooperative in Acre, Coopercintra, produced 16,530 kg of murumuru butter in the
2017/2018 harvest and 23,735 kg in the 2018/2019 harvest; the market price for murumuru
butter was US$ 6.99/kg in 2017/18 increasing to US$ 7.94/kg in 2018/19.
The total value of the harvest was to the coop was US$115,000 in the first period and US$
188,000 in the second. At an exchange rate of R$5:$1 this would be R$500,000 in the first
period and almost a million in the second.
HISTORY
At the beginning of the 20th century through World War II, Brazil exported around 40
different types of vegetable oils extracted from plants native to the Amazon. After the
second war, the demand for vegetable oils from the Amazon fell sharply leading to the

62

complete extinction of the existing industrial complex in Belém. This trend remained
unchanged until the end of the 20th century, when there was a growing interest in vegetable
oils from extraction and production systems that caused low environmental impacts, the
so-called sustainable exploitation (GONZALEZ et al., 2008). Because it has numerous
economic uses, the murumuru (Astrocaryum murumuru) generates demand for the supply of
raw material, for both the vegetable oil and biofuel industries (Oliveira De, M. C., et al. 2016).
Teixeira et al. (2010) also point out the viability of murumuru as a possible raw material for
biodiesel production, which could generate additional income for local farmers in rural
communities.
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS AND ENVIRONMENT: AGROFOREST, WILD HARVESTING, PLANTING
The murumuru palm is distributed throughout the Amazon ecoregion from Colombia,
Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia, Guyana, French Guiana, Suriname, Venezuela.
In Brazil, it occurs in the Amazon states of Amapá, Acre, Amazonas, Pará and Rondônia. With
Amapá and Pará the main producers.
Murumuru is largely harvested from the forest. The murumuru palm usually grows in humid
and temporarily flooded areas, close to rivers and lakes. It is a light demanding species, so
thinning forest cover by removing larger trees can favor management for commercial
purposes. In a floodplain forest inventoried in Pará, its spatial distribution pattern was
considered random and the use group as non-commercial. On the other hand, it was
considered to be an important species due to its environmental and socioeconomic
functions, as its fruits are widely consumed by fauna (GAMA et al., 2000).
There is great spatial variation in the number of murumuru palms per hectare within a region
and between different regions. In the State of Acre there are reports of the occurrence of 10
to 28 plants/ha in some areas, and as many as 100 plants/ha in others.
In Acre, a murumuru palm produces an average of four bunches/year and each bunch has an
average of 300 fruits for a total of 1,200 fruits/palm tree/year or 189 kg of coconuts. In
Amapá, each bunch averages 243 fruits/bunch. In the states of Amazonas, Pará and Amapá,
the murumuru harvest occurs over a 6 month period from January to June. When the fruits
ripen, the entire bunch falls to the ground, serving as an important food source for the local
fauna. The fruits pulp decomposes rapidly on the moist floodplain soil (EMBRAPA, 2022) .
MATURITY TIME
As murumuru is managed in standing forests with established murumuru populations, the
amount of time needed to establish a murumuru management system is relatively short,
especially where there are local organizations already collectively managing local forests for
harvest of murumuru almonds/seed.
Murumuru seeds take 6 to 12 months to germinate. Seedling growth is slow, taking about 4
to 5 years to start producing fruit. At the beginning of production, the bunches are small and
bear few fruits, but over time they become larger and produce more fruits (EMBRAPA, 2022).

63

PRODUCER PROFILE AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
Murumuru is collected by families in riverine communities. Income from murumuru
complements that from other sources. With growing demand for murumuru, there is the
possibility that increased income from murumuru management could significantly improve
livelihoods of murumuru collectors (EMBRAPA, 2022).
To encourage collection of murumuru fruit, the Government of the State of Acre has a policy
of paying subsidies for the collection of murumuru fruit, which is integrated into the REDD+
project implemented by the State, supported by the Governments of Germany and Norway.
The subsidy is a successful experiment in paying producers for the environmental services
they make possible and encourages continuity in sustainable production chains. Benefited
families are concentrated in riverine areas of forest reserves.
The measure complies with Law 1,277/1999, and acts as an incentive for these families as
part of a forest preservation and conservation policy. A total of US$ 601.3 thousand, was
paid to 965 extractivist families, for the production of 462 tons of rubber and murumuru in
the period from 2018 to 2020 (Revista Acre pelo clima, 2021).
PRODUCTION PROBLEMS
One of the most serious problems that limits the economic exploitation of murumuru is the
lack of access to oil extraction and processing technology. In addition, further research is
needed to develop management guidelines for propagation, cultural practices, harvesting
and processing of the fruits, to ensure sustainability and collection of higher quality the fruit.
Mapping studies and development of sustainable management systems for wild populations
should also be prioritized.
Another bottleneck in the supply chain concerns the cost of transporting production to
processing sites, generally located in urban centers. Murumuru fruits are usually transported
in small vessels as the freight charged for transport in larger vessels is prohibitive given the
price paid for the fruits (EMBRAPA, 2022).
In Pará, the removal of almonds is often carried out manually, by women and children under
contract, and receiving low wages. Each person can sort between 60 to 100kg of almonds in
an 8-9 hour shift. The average yield of almonds for each 100kg of dry kernels is 27-29kg, with
a humidity of 12 to 15% (EMBRAPA, 2022). There is a need for development of more efficient
and accessible technology for extracting murumuru almonds.
Research is oalso needed on the potential for developing agroforestry systems including
murumuru palms and other more intensive production systems that could ensure that local
populations benefit from the growing demand for murumuru butter and other products and
continue to play an important role in in developing supply chains.
SUPPLY CHAIN PROBLEMS
Processing is another problematic link in the supply chain. The kernels have variable sizes
and, after drying, these are mixed, and small kernels, when overdried, become very fragile

64

and brittle, while the large ones, are not completely dried and part of the almond may still
be adhered to the shell, which complicates separation and compromises the quality of the
fat.
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PROCESSING AND SIZING
There is an urgent need to develop and disseminate appropriate processing technology that
enables families and communities managing and collecting murumuru seeds to benefit from
the development of markets for murumuru products. Public policies, such as the subsidy the
government of Acre pays for murumuru collection, have proven to be a successful that
encourages the continuity of sustainable production chains.
The adoption of policies to structure the murmuru production chain, include: 1) technical
assistance in project management, 2) logistics planning for production flow, and 3)
standardization and certification of products. These measures will improve product quality
and strengthen the Minimum Price Guarantee for Sociobiodiversity Products (PGPM-Bio),
facilitating the necessary evolution towards a fairer income distribution across all links in
developing supply chains (Sociobiodiversity Bulletin, 2022).
CREDIT POTENTIAL/CARBON SEQUESTRATION
As a palm species, which can significantly improve returns from forest management and also
be integrated into agroforestry systems, it can play an important role in forest carbon offset
initiatives.
CERTIFICATIONS PROGRAMS
CERTIFICATION

BY-PRODUCTS

Certification
organic

Murumuru
products
derivatives

COMPANY
and

TYPE

Certification based on ISO 17065
Imocert-Bol Ensures that all production is carried out with low
ivia
environmental impact, without the use of pesticides,
ensuring fair payment for each family.

RELEVANT SECTORS
Major companies involved in thee murumuru supply supply chain include: are Jarchem
industries, Inc., Liberty Natural Products, Caribbean Natural Products Inc, BERACA
INGREDIENTS NATURAIS SA, LUSH RETAIL LIMITED, NSI Group, LLC, Vigon International, Inc,
Hallstar Company, H.F.Ed. Meyer GmbH & Co. KG , O&3 Limited
BIOCULTURAL PROTECTIONS OF COMMUNITIES OF ORIGIN (NAGOYA/CGEN/ETC.
PROTOCOL)
Brazilian adherence to the Nagoya Protocol, Legislative Decree No. 136 of 08/11/2020 ,
ratified by the national executive in March 2021, can leverage the murumuru production
chain due to the use and exploitation of genetic heritage by other countries.
REGULATORY INFORMATION
CAS Number: 356065-49-1 – murumuru butter - category emollients, skin conditioners

65

INCI Name (CTFA): Astrocaryum murumuru seed butter

66

2.13 COPAÍBA (Copaifera spp.) - COPAIBA OIL
The copaiba tree is known as “pau-de-oil”, “miracle tree” and “diesel oil tree” because it
produces oil that can be extracted from the trunk. Copaiba oil is known as the antibiotic of
the forest. It is one of the most important medicinal plants in the Amazon, used mainly to
treat inflammation, but also numerous other ailments. It has long been used by Indigenous
groups throughout Amazon who discovered the healing power of copaiba oil long ago.
Because of the highly variable and somewhat unpredictable nature of copaiba oil production
and limited research effort. Virtually all Copaiba oil is extracted from trees in natural forests.

PRODUCT
Oil-resin - used to extract essential oils for cosmetic and herbal purposes.
Biofuel: Copaiba oil could become a promising biofuel if production challenges could be
resolved.
Other Products
Wood – The wood is highly resistant to decay and is used locally in civil construction and
furniture production.
CURRENT MARKET SIZE
In 2009, Brazil produced 538 tons of copaiba oil, which generated a value of US$ 2,076,492
(3.86 US$/kg); in 2021, total production was 170 t, generating US$ 916,589 (5.39 US$/kg), in
12 years there was a decrease in production by -68% and an increase in price by 19%.
PROJECTED FUTURE MARKET SIZE
The copaiba market is expected to grow at 5.4 % from 2022 to 2029, to reach nearly US$ 3.51
Bn (MMR, 2023). Available data on copaiba production in the Brazilian Amazon suggest that
this estimate is overly optimistic, but may be justified by production in other South American
countries. There is no doubt that Copaiba tree is an important species with significant
economic potential.
VOLUMES SOLD/CONSUMED
Production of copaiba oil varies considerably year to year. For example production in the
Brailian Amazon reached 580 tons in 2010 and fell to 214 mt in 2011. Estimated production
in Brazil in 2021 was 170mt with a total market value of US$ 916,589. The state of Amazonas
was the largest producer with 140 t (82% of the total, with a total value of US$705,097.

67

Estimates of production for the other major producing states: Pará (16 t), Rondônia (8 t) and
Mato Grosso (6 t) (IBGE, 2021).
PRICE TREND
Wholesale prices for Copaiba essential oil found on the internet: 5lbs for $431 (WHOLESALE
BOTANICS, 2023) $86 per pound and 396 Lbs priced at $12,671.99 or US$ 32 per pound(3).
HISTORY
Copaiba tree is a plant native to South America, occurring mainly in Brazil, Venezuela,
Guianas and Colombia. Indigenous people discovered the medicinal properties of the plant
long ago. Amazonian Indians apparently used the oil to grease their bodies after combat as a
way of healing their wounds, a behavior probably arising from the observation of animals
that, when injured, rubbed against the trunks of the copaiba trees. Knowledge of the
medicinal properties was passed on to European colonists and was soon a basic element of
traditional medicinal knowledge throughout the Amazon and much of Brazil (MUNDO
EDUCAÇÂO, 2023). The first European record of extracting oil from the Copaiba tree was in a
work published in 1625, which stated that “. . . a single tree is said to yield about 40 litres”
(Grieve 1931 in (OIL SEED CROPS, 2023). A 1979 report cited in the same article states that it
was possible to “collect 15-20 liters of oil every six months” (OIL SEED CROPS, 2023).
However, a 2003 study found that actual yields were considerably lower, and that even
among those trees in the optimal size range (55-65cm) none produced a liter a year
(WIKIPEDIA, 2023). made in developing economically viable Copaiba plantations. While
developing biofuels from Copaiba has not panned out, it seems that the development of the
Copaiba’s medicinal and health properties have been far more successful.
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS AND ENVIRONMENT: AGROFOREST, WILD HARVESTING, PLANTING
Thus far, virtually all Copaiba oil is obtained from trees in natural forests and as yet there is
no established system for managing groves of trees for their oil production. Copaiba tree
densities are quite low and average densities for trees above 45cm dbh range from 0.14 to
1.13trees per hectare. Copaiba trees seem to produce oil only when they reach about 45 cm
dbh. Tappers drill into the tree with an auger to extract the oil and then plug the hole with
clay to prevent infection. Tappers will return to the tree periodically to extract more oil from
the same hole. However, Copaiba trees are notoriously unreliable as sources of oil. Studies
document that the first extraction invariably yields the largest amount and following yields
are considerably lower. A three year tapping cycle seems to be optimal.
Another possible strategy is to integrate copaiba trees into agroforestry systems with other
faster growing species that generate returns while Copaiba trees are growing, much as
RECCA has done with agroforestry systems integrating Brazil nut trees. It may be that the
best option is to use Copaiba trees in consortia for restoring degraded lands (EMBRAPA,
2021).
MATURITY TIME

68

The Copaiba trees are relatively slow-growing, reach a maximum height of 40 meters and can
live up to 400 years. Trees seem to only produce oil when they reach about 45cm dbh.
Production reaches a maximum in trees between 55 and 65cm dbh and then declines in
trees above that size. During the productive phase the yield of copaiba oil per tree can vary
from 100 milliliters to 60 liters per year, however, not all trees produce oil.
PRODUCER PROFILE AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
Copaiba oil is collected by small scale farmers in forested area and families that depend on
forest extraction and are integrated into the supply chains for Copaiba that are fairly
specialized compared to those for traditional agricultural and forest products. In this context,
middlemen often have an important role, which can reduce the profit margin for producers.
PRODUCTION PROBLEMS
As noted throughout this text, copaiba oil production is notoriously fickle. Thus far, there is
little indication in the literature that the challenges of developing production systems that
can provide a consistent and economically viable quantity of oil have been developed.
SUPPLY CHAIN PROBLEMS
Among the problems of the supply chains are: poor infrastructure, little social organization,
lack of training for sustainably extracting the oil and little support for ensuring that the
quality of the is maintained along the supply chain.
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PROCESSING AND SIZING
Copaiba oil is clearly a valuable substance and the Copaiba trees could be a major source of
value added for managed forests and in reforestation projects and perhaps eventually in
agroforestry systems, but significant, long term investment in research will be needed to
develop the economic potential of Copaiba trees.
CREDIT POTENTIAL/CARBON SEQUESTRATION
No particular role in carbon offset schemes.
CERTIFICATIONS PROGRAMS
To fractionate, refill and/or repackage inputs such as vegetable oils, essential oils and butter
to resell to stores and end consumers, companies need an Operating Permit from the
Ministry of Health, inspected by ANVISA.
CERTIFICATION

BY-PRODUCTS

TYPE

IBD organic seal

copaiba oil _

Certified natural and/or organic raw materials

RELEVANT SECTORS
Retailer
Projeto RECA
Associação Agroextrativista das Comunidades da

Site
https://www.projetoreca.com.br/produtos/oleo-de-co
paiba/
contabil_ney@yahoo.com.br

69
RDS do Rio Uatumã (AACRDSU)
Amazônia Hub

https://amazoniahub.com/inatu/

IMPORT/EXPORT AND COMPLIANCE RATES
Data for copaiba are aggregated with other vegetable oils and resins.
BIOCULTURAL PROTECTIONS OF COMMUNITIES OF ORIGIN (NAGOYA/CGEN/ETC.
PROTOCOL)
Brazilian adherence to the Nagoya Protocol, Legislative Decree No. 136 of 08/11/2020,
ratified by the national executive in March 2021, can leverage the copaiba oil production
chain due to the use and exploitation of genetic heritage by other countries.
REGULATORY INFORMATION
HS nº for import and export of copaiba – nº 3301 – essential oils; and nº 3004 – medicines
for therapeutic/homeopathic use

70

2.14 DENDÊ (Elaeis guineensis) - OIL PALM
Palm oil is the dominant edible oil in global trade and is used in a wide variety of products
and industrial processes. The oil palm is by far the most productive source of edible oil in
terms of production per hectare. Palm oil production is also well suited for small scale
production through outgrower or contract farming arrangements between processing
companies and small-scale producers. Palm oil could play an important role in providing a
sustainable source of income to small scale farmers, such as those in colonist settlements.
While palm oil is associated with social conflicts and large-scale deforestation in Southeast
Asia, safeguards in place have largely enabled Brazil to avoid these problems. The challenge
facing oil palm development in the Amazon is to overcome existing bottlenecks that have
slowed the growth of oil palm production thus far.

PRODUCT
Palm Oil: The red, unrefined oil extracted from the mesocarp of the oil palm is the main
product and in its unrefined form is called dendê in Brazil and is used widely in traditional
cuisine in Northeast Brazil, Africa and SE Asia. Crude oil palm oil is refined, neutralized,
bleached and deodorized, including removal of carotenoids, to produce RBDPO (Refined,
bleached and deodorized palm oil). Palm oil has a high unsaturated fats content and is
semi-solid at room temperature.
RBDPO is widely used in food, personal care and cleaning products and is refined into a
biofuel.
SUBPRODUCTS
Kernel: Palm kernel oil is a second product. While palm oil from the mesocarp is 49%
saturated, palm kernel oil is 81% saturated.
Products:
Food: Used widely in food requiring a solid fat, such as pastry dough and baked goods
Nonfood: Around 70% of personal care and cleaning products use palm oil.

71

Biomass and biofuels: Palm oil is used to produce methyl ester and hydrogenated biodiesel.
However, it generates far greater emissions than fossil fuels. Organic waste from processing
oil palm can be compressed into pellets and used as a biofuel.

CURRENT MARKET SIZE
Global
Global palm oil production was estimated to be 77.559 million metric tons in 2023
(USDA/IPAD 2023) with Indonesia and Malaysia accounting for 84% of the total (IPAD, 2022).
Total revenue in 2021 was estimated at $63.54 billion (2). Colombia is the largest producer in
South America with 4% of global production.
Brazil/National: Brazil ranks 10th with 1% of global production or 570,000mt.
PROJECTED FUTURE MARKET SIZE
Brazil palm oil market size reached a volume of 915 KT in 2021 and is expected to grow at a
CAGR of 6.0% during the forecast period of 2023-2028. The market interest and demand are
growing due to the awareness of the health benefits of palm oil (EMR, 2023). It is projected
that the revenue of Crude palm oil in Brazil will amount to approximately US 76.33 million
dollars by 2025 (STATISTA, 2021). The global palm oil market was valued at US 63.54 billion
dollars in 2021, and assuming a CAGR of 5.20 % could reach US 90.61 billion dollars by 2028
(GLOBONEWSWIRE, 2022).
VOLUMES SOLD/CONSUMED
In 2022, the consumption of palm oil in Brazil was approximately 935,000 metric tons, up
from 895,000 metric tons in 2021 (STATISTA, 2022). Of this total Brazilian production
accounted for 540,000 MT, 60% of total consumption, indicating that there is considerable
space for expansion of domestic production.
At present the edible oil market in Brazil is dominated by soy oil. However, the far higher
productivity of oil palm compared to soy and other oil seeds means that palm oil is highly
competitive with soy in a significant portion of the domestic market for soy oil.
PRICE TRENDS
Between 2014 and 2020 the average annual price of palm varied between varied between
US 837 and US 601 dollars per metric ton. The price per ton increased to US 1,275 dollars in
2022 and is expected to average around US 1050 per MT in 2023-24. It should be noted that
Brazilian production costs, especially labor, are higher than those of SE Asian countries, so
Brazilian producers have difficulty competing with other countries in the global market.
HISTORY
Oil palm is native to west Afrca where cultivation began some 5,000 years ago and continues
to be both a staple of West African diets and one of the region’s major export crops. Oil palm

72

was introduced into Bahia/NE Brazil in the 16th century as the trade supplying enslaved
African labor to Brazilian sugar plantations intensified. It has become a central element of
Bahian cuisine. Commercial oil palm production in the Brazilian Amazon began in the mid
1970s with the establishment of Denpasa in 1974 in an area near Belém. In the eighties and
nineties oil palm production grew with increasing company investment stimulated by
SUDAM incentives. By 1995, 52,058 hectares of oil palm were being produced in NE Pará.
During 2000s government interest in palm oil as a biofuel and the increase in the price of
palm oil in global markets, stimulated additional investment. In 2010 the government
created the Sustainable Palm Oil Production Programme (SPOPP) to stimulate
outgrower/contract farming arrangements similar to those in SE Asia where smallholders
produce for local processing mills. A 2010 agroecological study by EMBRAPA identified 29
million ha in 10 Amazon states appropriate for oil palm production currently, although only a
small fraction of this area is under production today (EMBRAPA, 2010).
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS & ENVIRONMENT: AGROFORESTRY, WILD HARVEST, PLANTATION
In Brazil oil palms are cultivated primarily as monocultures much of it in large scale
plantations (BRANDÃO, 2015). However, a small but significant percent of Brazilian
production comes from smallholder farms often through contract farming arrangements
with local processing companies.
Agroforestry
There are a number of initiatives seeking to develop sustainable and profitable agroforestry
systems integrating oil palms, results thus far indicate that these agroforestry systems can be
economically viable, but thus far there are few examples of commercial agroforestry systems
integrating oil palms.
TIME TO MATURITY
Oil palm begins producing around 3yrs of age and continues producing for 25 years.
PRODUCER PROFILE & SOCIAL IMPACTS
In Brazil, large scale plantations dominate total palm oil production. However, small scale
producers are responsible for only a small percent of total area/total production through
various kinds of outgrower arrangements. While there are challenges to developing and
implementing contract farming arrangements between companies and smallholders, studies
have found that long term contracts can provide smallholders with good incomes and
considerable economic stability for the duration of their contracts (BRANDÃO, 2021). This
production model could be especially beneficial for smallholders in colonist settlements that
have appropriate agronomic conditions.
PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY CHAIN ISSUES
Disease: The oil palm is vulnerable to several diseases in the Amazon and research is
underway to reduce threats through development of more disease resistant varieties better

73

adapted to Amazon conditions. While deforestation is not a significant issue for the palm oil
supply chain in Brazil, there are concerns related to land tenure issues and pollution of local
waterways from the application of chemicals.
CARBON CREDIT/SEQUESTRATION POTENTIAL
The oi palm has significant potential for carbon sequestration and carbon credits as
monocultures and in agroforestry systems.
CERTIFICATION PROGRAMS
Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil. RSPO was created to promote best practices in oil palm
cultivation and processing to increase the sustainability of oil palm production and
processing of oil palm products. Best practices are also applied in out-grower programs to
ensure equitable contracts with producers and adoption of sustainable production practices.
RELEVANT INDUSTRIES
Retailer
ABRAPALMA, Associação dos Produtores de Óleo de Palma
Agroindustrial Palmasa S/A
Agropalma
Belém Bioenergia Brasil S/A
Biopalma da Amazônia S/A Reflorestamento, Industria e Comércio
Denpasa – Dendê do Pará S/A
Marborges Agroindustria S/A

Site
http://www.abrapalma.org/en/
www.palmasa.com.br
https://www.agropalma.com.br/en/
www.belembioenergia.com.br
brasilbiofuels.com.br
www.denpasa.com.br
www.marborges.com

REGULATORY INFORMATION
INCI Name: Hydrogenated Palm Oil, Elaeis Guineensis (Palm) Kernel Oil, Elaeis Guineensis
(Palm) Oil.
Harmonized System Code: HS Code 15119099 - Palm, oil, liquid - Tariff Number
EINECS No:
CAS Number: Palm oil | CAS 8002-75-3

74

2.15 PATAUÁ (Oenocarpus bataua Mart.)
The Patauá palm is found in much of Northern South America especially in the Amazon and
Orinoco river basins. Populations in many areas were devastated in the last century, so it is
now rare in some portions of its original distribution. It occurs in the states of Acre,
Amazonas, Pará, and Rondônia. The Patauá palm inhabits humid lowland forests, especially
gallery forests along streams and rivers. The great potential of this species lies in the oil
extracted from the fruit. Unlike most palms it is highly unsaturated, with 75-80%
monounsaturated fatty acids and approximately 3% polyunsaturated, very similar to olive oil.
This fatty acid composition makes possible the use of Patauá oil to produce soap, cosmetics,
medicinal treatments and biodiesel.

PRODUCTS
Oil –Patauá oil is used in cosmetics as a tonic to soften hair. In the pharmaceutical industry it
can be used in the composition of ointments, balms, and kerates. It is also used in folk
medicine as a laxative, remedy for tuberculosis, asthma and other respiratory problems.
Biofuel - It is a highly efficient source of diesel oil.
Palm heart – is used in salads and consumed fresh (EMBRAPA, 2004; OLIVEIRA, 2017;
OLIVEIRA et al., 2022).
CURRENT MARKET SIZE
There is very little information that could be used to estimate the size of the patuá market.
Producers and local intermediaries sell the fruit in informal markets in cans of 14.5kg and 30
kg. During the harvest period in Acre about 1,500 cans are sold per week in local markets
(MACIEL, 2018; EMBRAPA, 2004). The processing of the fruit is similar to açaí.
SIZE OF THE PROJECTED FUTURES MARKET
Despite the current small demand as a food plant, patauá oil is gaining ground in the
cosmetics industry. For example, the Natura company has an exclusive line called Natura
Ekos Patauá; Cosmetics companies such as L'Occitante au Brésil, are investing in projects
such as "Oil Houses" in the state of Pará, which is organizing the supply chain of patauá oil

75

through the construction of infrastructure for the artisanal production of patauá oil and has
developed product lines using Patauá oil.
VOLUMES SOLD/CONSUMED
PRICE TREND
Wholesale prices for Patauá oil sold online range from 25kg for $1,065 to $3,876.6 for 100kg.
The sale of patauá oil in the state of Acre, went from 10kg (R $ 700.00) in 2018 to 500kg in
2019 (R $ 19,000), an increase of R $ 18,300.00 in the revenue generated from its sale
(SEMA-ACRE, 2018). It is unclear what the trend has been between 2019 and the present.
Patauá oil (extracted by boiling the pulp) is found on the market at R$60.00/kg (SEMA-ACRE,
2018; COOPFRUTOS, 2023).
HISTORY
Patauá, has been used for decades by indigenous and traditional peoples due to the
medicinal properties of the oil extracted from the fruit. Because it has a taste, odor and
chemical composition similar to olive oil, in past decades patauá oil was extracted manually
and marketed as a substitute for olive oil in fried foods and salads. It was also exported to
Italy, Spain and Portugal. The commercialization of the oil as a substitute for olive oil was
quite significant during WWII. Between 1939 and 1945 more than 200mt/year of oil was
exported to Europe, but the low quality of the oil led to the collapse of the export market. At
the same time, the predatory exploitation of palm trees for fruit depleted local populations
on the supply end. Currently, patauá fruit are harvested to produce oil for companies
producing cosmetics. The pulp is also consumed in natura and used to manufacture popsicles
and ice cream. The demand for edible oil is restricted to local and traditional populations. In
other South American countries the oil market is still very strong. The Natura company
identified a bioactive capable of promoting hair growth. Research institutions located in the
North Region have also been interested in the domestication of patauá, targeting the oil and
pulp markets. (QUEIROZ et al., 2016; OLIVEIRA et al., 2022).
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS AND ENVIRONMENT: AGROFORESTRY, WILD HARVESTING,
PLANTING
Patauá occurs in floodplain, igapó and terra firme habitats, but has a preference for
floodplain soils. It occurs in high densities with from 100 plants/ha up to 900 plants/ha and
produces about 11mt of fruit/ha/year. It can be grown in altered areas of terra firme,
preferably in agroforestry systems (SAF's) or in consortia with other fruit trees or food crops.
In experimental planting in monocultures, its growth was slow, but with little evidence of
pests and diseases. Despite predatory exploitation in the past, it is still possible to find large
populations, especially in the Lower Tocantins area (EMBRAPA, 2004; OLIVEIRA et al., 2022).
PRODUCER PROFILE AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
The extraction of patauá is carried out by riverine and extractive populations, it is a
supplemental income source for these families. The development of management systems
for wild stands and integration of patauá into agroforestry systems combined with

76

development of the patauá value chain could have a significant impact on rural families and
their communities.
PRODUCTION PROBLEMS
Deforestation is still a challenge in the production of Patauá. The challenge for the use of
patauá oil on an industrial scale lies in finding a development model that favors the
sustainable management of wild patauá stands.
SUPPLY CHAIN PROBLEMS
Lack of equipment for oil removal and processing is an important constraint. Fragility of the
cold chain for storage and transport of the fruit is another problem. The productivity of oil
extraction is limited by traditional methods. The lack of standardization in the extraction of
the oil means that oil production and quality are extremely variable.
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PROCESSING AND SIZING
Research is needed on all phases of the patauá supply chain from developing more
productive varieties, sustainable management systems and cultivation practices, to
accessible technologies for producing high quality oil at commercial scale are among the
priorities (BRASIL, 2022).
CARBON CREDIT/SEQUESTRATION POTENTIAL
Patauá management is consistent with a low low carbon forest economy.
CERTIFICATION PROGRAMS
ECO CERT ORGANIC COSMOS
RELEVANT SECTORS
Retailer

Local

Amazon Forest Trade

https://amazonforestrading.com.br/produto/extratos-e-oleos/oleo-daamazonia-de-pataua-natural/

Amazon Symbioze

https://simbiozeamazonica.com/products/pataua's
oleo-lidimo-30ml1/

Amazonoil

https://www.amazonoil.com.br/produtos-da-floresta/pataua-oenocar
pus-bataua/

Cooperative of Native Fruit Pulp Producers of
Mâncio Lima (COOPFRUTOS)

https://coopfrutos.webnode.page/

IMPORT/EXPORT TARIFFS AND COMPLIANCE
The tariffs will be given in accordance with trade agreements, tariff preferences and
legislation applicable to foreign trade (BRAZIL, 2023).
BIOCULTURAL
PROTOCOL)

PROTECTIONS

OF

COMMUNITIES OF ORIGIN (NAGOYA/CGEN/ETC

77

The Brazilian adherence to the Nagoya Protocol, Legislative Decree No. 136 of 11/08/2020,
ratified by the national executive in March 2021, can leverage the Patauá production chain
due to the use and exploitation of genetic heritage by other countries.
REGULATORY INFORMATION
Pearl name: Oenocarpus bataua Mart.
Harmonized System Code: Patauá does not have a specific HS code.

78

2.16 PIMENTA DO REINO (Piper nigrum L.) - BLACK PEPPER
Black pepper, also known as round pepper and, in Brazil, as black pepper, is one of the oldest
and most well-known spices.

PRODUCT
Pepper (from the genus piper) dried in grains, crushed or powdered
OTHER PRODUCTS
Piperine and oleoresin, substances used in the sausage, perfume and pharmaceutical
industries.
CURRENT MARKET SIZE
In 2022 the global black pepper market was valued at $4.1 billion. Brazilian pepper
production in 2021 was between 114.75 and 118.1 million tons, with a total market value of
US$ 333.6 million, Espirito Santo was the largest producer and the state of Pará second
largest. Brazilian exports of black pepper in 2021 were 92.3 million mt, second to Vietnam
which was responsible for 41.5% of global exports.
PROJECTED FUTURE MARKET SIZE
The projected future market size in 2028 is US$ 5.5 Billion based on a CAGR of 4.3%. In the
longer term, however, the outlook is more problematic as the global market for black pepper
will come under increasing pressure from oversupply. The largest producers, such as Vietnam
and Brazil, have been increasing production in recent years, while demand has only
increased by 2 – 2.5% / year (ProCampo, 2020).
Vietnam, the largest producer of peppers, has been reducing the amount of production and
this vacuum could be filled by Brazil, the second largest producer. The competitiveness of
Brazilian black pepper in the international market is related to the quality of Brazilian black
pepper, free of physical, chemical and biological contaminants, and to Brazil’s competitive
production costs (ALVES et al., 2017).
VOLUMES SOLD/CONSUMED
In 2021, the production of black pepper in Brazil reached around 118.1 thousand metric
tons, valued at US$ 333.6 million. This is more than double the production of 54.4 thousand
metric tons registered in 2016 (IBGE, 2021). Of this total 92.3 thousand metric tons were
exported, which with imports of 278 mt indicates that domestic consumption may have been
roughly 23,000 mt in 2021.
PRICE TREND

79

Between 2021 and 2023 the price per ton for black pepper declined about 12% from
U$3,335 USD/MT to US$ 2,950 USD/MT. The increase in production registered above was a
response to growing demand and rising prices in the global market in recent years. However,
production is now greater than demand, leading explaining the 12% decline in the price of
Brazilian pepper exports (PARTELLI, 2020 ).
The price paid to producers in June 2022 varied among the 3 largest produce states in Brazil,:
Pará R$/kg 8.84; Espírito Santo R$/kg 10.51; and Bahia R$/kg 11.56 (CONAB, 2022).
HISTORY
Originally from India, black pepper was introduced to Brazil in the 17th century. Black pepper
was introduced to the Amazon in the 1950s and production grew rapidly once appropriate
cultivation systems were developed. However, in the sixties black pepper production was
devastated by fusaria that attack the roots after about 7 years of cultivation. Japanese
farmers eventually succeeded in managing the problem and pepper production gradually
recovered in Pará and once again constitutes an important export crop for Amazon farmers.
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS AND ENVIRONMENT: AGROFOREST, WILD HARVESTING, PLANTING
Black pepper in Pará is cultivated in two different systems, intensive monocultures and in
AFS. In Southwest Pará pepper producers have adopted a more intensive monoculture under
full sunlight with 1,600 plants/ha sun. This system with irrigation and balanced fertilization
can produce over 5t of dry black pepper per year. Productivity varies from 2.5 kg to 4.0
kg/plant (SítioDaMata , 2023). Southwest Pará obtained the highest growth in productivity,
5.79% per year from 1998 to 2008. In Northeast Pará, where Amazon pepper production
began, is grown primarily in agroforestry systems and production grew at 2.25% per year. The
use of SAFs decreases the number of plants and more shade reducing productivity
(ROSARIO, 2017).
TIME TO MATURATION
Black pepper plantations reach maturity in the third to fourth year. The first harvest occurs in
the second year, but income usually does not to cover costs. Pepper production begins to
make a profit from the third year onwards and thereafter provides fairly consistent economic
returns. Production in the third and fourth year ranges from 1.5 kg to 3.0 kg per plant, and
2,400 kg and 4,800 kg per hectare (DUARTE, 2004 )..
PRODUCER PROFILE AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
The black pepper tree is cultivated by small scale producers who use family and hired labor
on a seasonal basis. In pepper producing areas, large numbers of temporary workers are
hired during the harvest season
Black pepper is an important source of income for rural families, and helps maintenance
families in rural areas, contributes to continuity in their way of life. The black pepper
producers employ around 50 thousand people during the harvest period, and foreign
exchange around US$ 50 million per year through exports (EMBRAPA, 2004).
PRODUCTION PROBLEMS
High cost of wood for tutor stakes and the reduction of the useful life of plantations caused
by root diseases which tend to infect pepper plantations after about 7 years, raises
production costs (MARTINS, 2018) .

80

The cultivation of black pepper using live stakes (gliricidia), replacing wooden stakes, which
are more expensive and suffer from environmental restrictions, increases the longevity of the
pepper plantation and reduces the environmental impact of the activity. Gliricidia is a
fast-growing leguminous tree, native to Central America and contributes to increasing carbon
sequestration in a pepper plant, improves soil condition by fixing nitrogen and incorporating
organic matter. Potential that must be explored (CanalRural , 2021).
The competitiveness of the Brazilian product in the international market is related to the
quality of the black pepper produced, free of physical, chemical and biological contaminants,
and to compatible production costs so that it is economically viable (ALVES, 2017). The
indiscriminate use of pesticides in crops and incorrect handling of the spice has created trade
barriers, especially in European Union countries.
This problem has been addressed through regulations implemented in September, 2021
NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION MAPA No. 12, OF SEPTEMBER 6, 2021 (DOU Section 1 No. 175,
09/15/2021). However, it may take some time for producers to fully comply with the new
regulations.
SUPPLY CHAIN PROBLEMS
Harvesting and drying: the ears are harvested manually and placed in cloth bags that the
workers carry on their shoulders. Clean bags must be used, the same bag must not be used
without being sanitized, before the next harvest. Producers should be alert to the presence
of human or animal fecal material in the harvesting or processing environment (EMBRAPA,
2004).
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PROCESSING AND SIZING
Some alternatives for pepper production would be intercropping, organizing producers to
sell with volumes and quality in processing (drying and cleaning) and the production of
differentiated products, such as white pepper, which has a higher price. By investing in new
technologies, research to develop productive and resistant varieties, and technical assistance
to producers are factors that could contribute significantly to the competitiveness of
Amazonian black pepper producers.
CREDIT POTENTIAL/CARBON SEQUESTRATION
Black pepper plantations offer a good opportunity for carbon sequestration, sinceit is a plant
that adapts quite easily to the soil and does not require many specific care and restrictions,
the implementation of carbon dioxide neutralization strategies in black pepper plantations is
easie
CERTIFICATIONS PROGRAMS
Normative Instruction MAPA nº 12, of 09/06/2021, establishes the mandatory and
recommended criteria to increase the quality of the Integrated Production of Black Pepper.
Important Suppliers
Retailer
Cooperativa Agrícola Mista de Tomé - Açu

Site
https://www.camta.com.br/index.php/pimenta-do-reino

BIOCULTURAL PROTECTIONS OF COMMUNITIES OF ORIGIN (NAGOYA/CGEN/ETC.
PROTOCOL)

81

Brazilian adherence to the Nagoya Protocol, Legislative Decree No. 136 of 08/11/2020,
ratified by the national executive only in March 2021. Black pepper does not originate in
Brazil.
REGULATORY INFORMATION
CAS number: 84929-41-9
EINECS/ELINCS No.: 284-524-7
COSING REF No.: 40918
Chemical/IUPAC Name: Piper Nigrum fruit Oil is the volatile oil distilled from the dried ripe
fruit of black pepper, Piper nigrum L., Piperaceae

82

2.17 PIRARUCU (Arapaima spp.)
Also known as paiche in Peru
The pirarucu is the largest fish with scales in the Amazon basin and can reach 3+ meters in
length. Dried salted pirarucu was a major staple of intraregional trade in the Amazon
throughout the Colonial period. Centuries of commercial exploitation led to the severe
depletion of pirarucu stocks by the 1980s, leading to its inclusion in Appendix II of CITES.
Thanks to a highly effective management system developed and implemented in the state of
Amazonas in the early 2000s, stocks in some areas began to recover as the management
system has been disseminated throughout the state. Annual harvest of sustainable pirarucu
is estimated to be around 3,000 tons and increasing. Today fresh, iced pirarucu is one of the
most highly priced food fish in the Amazon (TAVARES, 2014).
The taxonomy of the pirarucu is in flux. For most of the last 100+ years, the Arapaima was
believed to consist of one species named Arapaima gigas. In the last two decades some
specialists have argued that there are several distinct species and at least one has been
accepted as a new species.

BY-PRODUCTS
Fresh, iced and frozen pirarucu are the main forms of pirarucu sold in markets and
supermarkets today.
Dried salted: In the past this was the dominant form. The availability of dried salted pirarucu
is much reduced and can be of variable quality. There have been some initiatives to produce
and sell high quality dried and salted pirarucu that is comparable to high quality dried salted
cod.
Smoked pirarucu: There has been a surge of interest in smoking pirarucu, in part due to the
proliferation of home systems for smoking meat, poultry and fish. Smoked pirarucu is
available in some restaurants and may be available in some supermarkets.
Pirarucu leather: There is growing interest in fish skin processed into leather and used in
shoes and pocketbooks/purses.

83

Minor products: fish scales used as nail files and the boney tongue used as a rasp
CURRENT MARKET SIZE
Total production from sustainably managed lakes reached 2,600 tons in 2019 and may
exceed 3,000 by 2023 (McGrath et al., 2020). The total amount of pirarucu harvested
annually is difficult to estimate because the main producing state, Amazonas, has banned
commercial fishing of pirarucu outside areas with government authorized management
plans. Despite the ban, there is a significant trade in pirarucu coming from unmanaged lakes,
including fish below the legal minimum size and fish caught out of season (between
December and June.
PROJECTED FUTURE MARKET SIZE
Based on the trend since the managed pirarucu fishery was established in 2003, we can
expect the total supply of legal pirarucu to increase to at least four thousand tons by 2030. If
there are significant improvements in supply chain infrastructure and increased demand for
managed pirarucu in national and international markets, the size of the pirarucu market
could be considerably larger.
SOLD/CONSUMED VOLUMES
Because of the significant amount of illegal fish entering the market and the low level of
government effort to monitor fish landings, there is only fragmentary data on the total
volume of pirarucu entering the market in the Brazilian Amazon.
PRICE TRENDS
The pirarucu is a high value species and its retail price is among the highest priced fish
species in Amazon markets, similar to that of the tambaqui, tucunaré and piraiba (filhote).
Because of supply chain bottlenecks between managed lakes and major markets, the price of
managed pirarucu is significantly lower than it should be.
Fresh and frozen Arapaima: R$45-R$50 per kilo. $9-$10 per kilo depending on exchange rate
Smoked arapaima: R$60/kg ($12)/kg. Minimum purchase 40kg
Dried salted arapaima: R$95-R$145 ($19-$29/kg),
HISTORY
The pirarucu was an important staple in Amazon trade from early in the Colonial era (1600s)
into the 1970s. During this period virtually all pirarucu was traded in the form of dried salted
filets (called mantas) extending the length and breadth of the fish. Since the seventies there
has been a shift in the commercial fisheries from dried salted fish to fresh iced and frozen
fish. This trend was accompanied by the intensification of commercial fishing pressure
resulting in a significant decline in commercial pirarucu landings between the 1970s and
2000s. This trend has been reversed in some regions of the state of Amazonas with the
development of a highly effective community based management system in the late 1990s,
based on counting individual pirarucu as they rise to the surface at regular intervals

84

(CASTELLO, 2004). Now community management groups can accurately monitor lake
populations, and define and harvest annual catch quotas, that ensure increasing incomes,
local employment and healthy, growing pirarucu populations.
MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS & ENVIRONMENT
The management system for pirarucu has the potential to transform the management of
floodplain fisheries and land use. Successful pirarucu management systems improve
conditions for other fish species and aquatic biodiversity in general (CAMPOS-SILVA; PERES,
2016). Research has shown that the productivity of floodplain fisheries is directly related to
the extent of floodplain forest cover. Ten percent more forest, results in a 10% improvement
in fishing productivity (CASTELLO et al., 2017). This creates an incentive for fisher farmers to
reduce the number of cattle and allow the recovery of floodplain forests, thereby not only
increasing the productivity of local fisheries. but also generating additional income through
forest management.
PRODUCER PROFILE & SOCIAL IMPACTS
The pirarucu management system involves almost exclusively traditional and indigenous
communities, composed of families that engage in a variety of productive activities including
fishing and farming, forest collection and especially in the eastern Amazon small scale cattle
raising.
Pirarucu Value Chain: Growth in the volume of sustainably managed pirarucu has stimulated
the transformation of the traditional pirarucu fishery and is pressuring the supply chain to
reinvent itself as a modern cold value chain that delivers wild, sustainably managed pirarucu
from community lakes deep in the Amazon to regional and national consumer markets with
minimal loss of quality. Towards this end, local pirarucu management organizations are
joining forces to organize regional supply chains, while several private sector initiatives are
investing in key components of a modern supply chain infrastructure. A third aspect of the
supply chain involves digitizing the existing chain of custody system to ensure that pirarucu
from unmanaged lakes are unable to enter the pirarucu supply chain.
Market: As the total catch of managed pirarucu grows, efforts are ramping up to develop
markets to absorb the growing volume of sustainably managed pirarucu in Brazil and in
promising international markets in the US, Europe and Asia.
CARBON CREDIT/SEQUESTRATION POTENTIAL
The productivity of Amazon floodplain fisheries is directly related to floodplain forest cover,
the greater the forest cover around a lake, the higher the productivity of lake fisheries. Forest
carbon credits can provide an additional incentive to motivate floodplain fisher-farmers to
make the transition from fish and cattle to managing floodplain fisheries and forests.
CERTIFICATION PROGRAMS
The pirarucu management system has had difficulty satisfying certifiers, in large part,
because pirarucu management is a decentralized community level system that violates a

85

central element of the MSC’s and other certifiers “whole stock principle”. This position
ignores two decades of scientific research showing the steady growth in pirarucu populations
in managed lakes even as the total catch and the number of fishers also increases. Another
indicator that lakes can be effective management units is the striking contrast in pirarucu
populations between adjacent lakes, one managed with pirarucu densities of 35+ individuals
per km and the other unmanaged lakes with densities below 5 individuals per km2.
CITES
The pirarucu is also cited in Appendix II of CITES. Appendix II includes species for which there
is insufficient data on the status of the species. However, the CITES Livelihood Fact Sheet
(2019) on the pirarucu, notes that “Community-based harvest and trade can be a more
effective contribution to species conservation and the fight against illegal trade than relying
on bans and law enforcement measures, even for a species seriously depleted by illegal
harvest and trade. . . Key success factors here include local leadership and experimentation,
support from the relevant government agencies, existing community socio-political
organisation, and integration of traditional knowledge (CITES; LIVELIHOODS CASE STUDY,
2019).
THE ORIGINS CERTIFICATION
Pirarucu management associations in the state of Amazonas have adopted the Origins
Certification system (FEMAPAM, 2020). This is not a certification of the management system
but rather, as the name implies, an affirmation of the cultural and ecological legitimacy of
the pirarucu management system, an example of the potential of collaborations between
scientists and experienced pirarucu fishers.
RELEVANT INDUSTRIES
Aggregators/Suppliers
Retailer
Association of Rural Producers of
Carauri (ASPROC)
Mamirauá Sustainable Development
Institute

Site
R. Castelo Branco, 380 - Centro, Carauari - AM, 69500-000, Brazil
https://asproc.org.br/#
https://www.mamiraua.org
mamiraua@mamiraua.org.br
+55 (97) 3343-9700, headquartered in Tefé (AM) or (91) 3086-9184,
office in Belém (PA)

Processors / Exporters / Importers
Retailer
Friolins
Frigopesca

Site
Manaus, AM Friolins Pescados Ltda. is located at: R. Duque de Caxias, 266 - São Francisco,
Manacapuru - AM, 69400-380, Brazil., +55 92 3361-1425
2472 Avenida Correnteza, Manacapuru, AM 69400-000

REGULATORY INFORMATION
INCI Name : Arapaima spp.
Harmonized System Code :
EINECS No :

86

CAS Number :
NCM: 302.89 e 303.89

87

2.18 PUPUNHA (Bactris gasipaes)
The Peach Palm or Pupunha is a perennial palm tree, native to the tropical region of the
Americas that is cultivated for both its fruit and palm heart. In northern Brazil, the nutritious
fruit are widely consumed and much appreciated. In Southeastern Brazil varieties of
pupunha developed by EMBRAPA are cultivated for their palmito, which is yellow in color
and sweeter than the palmito of other well known species such as Juçara and Açaí. The
market for pupunha is growing and there is considerable potential for developing Amazon

varieties and production systems for both fruit and palm heart.
PRODUCT
Fruit – food industry, consumed in natura and is also processed into a flour;
Heart of palm - food industry, consumed in natura and canned.
BY-PRODUCT
Peach palm oil – is extracted from the fruit of the pupunha and is consumed in the Amazon
region (contains a higher amount of unsaturated fatty acids than palm oil, but is not
exploited industrially);
Wood - hard and weather resistant, it is used in the manufacture of musical instruments, tool
handles, flooring, handicrafts, pulp for paper and cellophane.
CURRENT MARKET SIZE
The global market for pupunha fruit was valued at US $4.19 in 2021 (TRIDGE, 2023).
PROJECTED FUTURE MARKET SIZE
The TNC report estimates that the value of the pupunha supply chain increased by 4.7% pa
between 2006 and 2019 (TNC, 2021). The Peach palm (pupunha) is considered a 'relevant
and dynamic' product, and is among the most important bioeconomy products of the state
of Pará in terms of production value in 2019 and had high positive growth rates.
VOLUMES SOLD/CONSUMED
Total pupunha fruit production in the Brazilian Amazon is estimated to be 5,386 mt.
Approximately 43% of peach palm fruit production is sold by local retailers to local
consumers; the remaining 57% is consumed in large urban centers of the Amazon. Given
how widespread pupunha consumption is and how diffuse production, this is most certainly
an underestimate (BRANDÃO et al., 2021).

88

According to the 2017 Agricultural Census the estimated value of the pupunha fruit market in
Brazil was US$ 8,689. Of this total, the estimated value of the Amazonian market was US$
5,252 (EMBRAPA, 2019). According to the 2021 TNC report on bioecnomy products of Pará,
based on detailed field research on the pupunha value chain in Pará, the gross value of the
production of pupunha in the state is estimated to have reached BRL 4.4 million in 2019. We
did not find comparable data for the entire Amazon region on the value of the market for
pupunha palm heart, which is primarily produced in southeastern Brazil.
PRICE TREND
Pupunha fruit production is estimated to have grown at 4.2% pa since 2006 (TNC, 2021).
HISTORY
Pupunha originates in the Ucayali River basin and in the upper Madeira River basin of
southeastern Peru. It was disseminated throughout Brazil by indigenous people. The
geographic distribution of pupunha reveals the trade and migration routes of pre -Columbian
times to the North Pacific regions of South America ( Ecuador and Colombia), the Caribbean
(Colombia and Venezuela), the Upper Amazon region (Bolivia , Brazil and Peru) and Central
America (Panama, Costa Rica and Nicarágua) (Portalvidalivre, 2022). Researchers at
EMBRAPA developed varieties adapted to SE Brazil for palmito production.
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS AND ENVIRONMENT: AGROFOREST, WILD HARVESTING, PLANTING
The area planted with peach palm trees for the production of heart of palm in Brazil is
estimated at 26,000 hectares with most of the planted area concentrated in northeast and
southeast Brazil (CI ORGÂNICOS, 2015).
<
https://ciorganicos.com.br/biblioteca/pupunha-e-opcao-de-renda-para-agricultura-familiar/
>
In the Amazon region, the pupunha is almost exclusively a source of fruit. It is grown in house
gardens and managed agroforests. Fruit are also collected from palm trees in secondary
vegetation often associated with abandoned fields. Production is sufficient to meet local
demand with any surplus sold to intermediaries for sale in urban markets (EMBRAPA, 2023).
MATURITY TIME
Each plant produces multiple stems forming a clump or tussock. The stem may or may not
contain thorns. Fruit production begins in the 3-4th year and continues for the productive life
of the palm (at least 10-20 years). Peach palms can produce up to 8 bunches per year, each
with about 100 fruits depending on their size (Colecionandofrutas, 2023; Portalvidalivre,
2022).
PRODUCER PROFILE AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
The profile of pupunha producers in general is of small scale family farmers who maintain
pupunha palms in house gardens and surrounding secondary vegetation. Fruits are primarily
consumed by the family with excess sold to intermediaries or directly in local markets.
Pupunha can be an important source of food security and cash from the sale of pupunha
fruit contributes to cash purchases (TAVAREs, R. K., 2019).
PRODUCTION PROBLEMS

89

The peach palm is vulnerable to several diseases. Among the pathogens that occur in the
peach palm, include fungi Colletotrichum gloesporioides, Bipolaris bicolor, Curvularia
eragrostides, Pestalotiopsis sp., Dreschlera incurvata, Phomopsis sp. And Alternaria sp. that
cause leaf spots mainly in plants with water stress or nutritional deficiency.
Another difficulty is obtaining pupunha seeds that breed true, especially with regard to
stems without thorns, as there is no guarantee that seeds extracted from palm trees without
thorns will generate smooth peach tree trunks. Due to this factor, many producers are
unable to expand their plantings, since it is unfeasible to work with trees with spines
(TAVARES, 2019).
SUPPLY CHAIN PROBLEMS
The lack of machinery to automate production and harvesting are major problems, since
basically all steps from planting to processing are done manually (RIOS et al., 2019). Other
problems identified in the supply chain: Location of raw materials and transport; Difficulties
in registering with the Ministry of Agriculture; Low production scale and high costs (BERGO,
2005).
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PROCESSING AND SIZING
There is an important opportunity for developing pupunha varieties without thorns that
produce both fruit and high quality palm heart, increasing economic returns from pupunha
production. Also, there is little information on production of subproducts of pupunha
including flour and oil.
CREDIT POTENTIAL/CARBON SEQUESTRATION
Research on agroforestry systems integrating pupunha palms have potential for carbon
sequestration. After 5 years of implantation of agroforestry systems with 68.8% of peach
palm; 9.4% mutamba cotton; 3.1% cashew; and 18.7% of orange trees, had an annual rate of
carbon storage in the aerial biomass, in the soil and in total respectively of 28.3; 1.9; and
30.2 tC /ha-1/year (ALVARADO, 2007).
CERTIFICATIONS PROGRAMS
CERTIFICATION
Organic
certification
BR/EU/US:
Product Organic Brazil

BY-PRODUCTS

TYPE

Biodynamic
Institute (IBD)

Meets all organic certifications
made by IBD Certifications in the
domestic market and is used in
conjunction with the seal of organic
products from Brazil
Meets all certifications made for the
North American Market (USA), and
IBD is accredited with the adoption
of USDA/NOP standards

–

Canned heart of palm
Organic
certification
BR/EU/US:
USDA Organic Certification

COMPANY

–

RELEVANT SECTORS
IMPORT/EXPORT AND COMPLIANCE RATES
No information found
BIOCULTURAL PROTECTIONS OF COMMUNITIES OF ORIGIN (NAGOYA/CGEN/ETC.
PROTOCOL)

90

Brazilian adherence to the Nagoya Protocol, Legislative Decree No. 136 of 08/11/2020,
ratified by the national executive in March 2021, can leverage the peach palm heart of palm
production chain due to the use and exploitation of the genetic heritage by other countries.
REGULATORY INFORMATION
NCM Harmonized System Code: 2008.91.00 – heart of palm

91

2.19 TAMBAQUI (Colossoma macroponum)
Tambaqui is a large, fruit and nut eating fish, one of the most popular food fish in the
Amazon. The tambaqui exemplifies the symbiotic relationship between Amazon fish and
floodplain forests. Wild populations have been much depleted by overfishing. However, in
the 1990s and early 2000s, the tambaqui the main focus of efforts to develop varieties of
native Amazon fish species for aquaculture. Today, the tambaqui is the most important fish
species produced by Amazon fish farmers (VALENTI et al., 2021).

PRODUCT
Roundfish (Peixe Redondo): The tambaqui is one of three species of characin (Tambaqui,
Pirapitanga, and Pacu) used in aquaculture along with two hybrids (Tambacu and
Tambatinga) that are crosses of tambaqui with the other two species. This group of fish,
referred to collectively as Roundfish (peixe redondo) accounted for 93% of total Amazon
aquaculture production in 2020, with other native and nonnative fish species accounting for
the remainder (PEIXE BR, 2021).
SUBPRODUCTS
Farmed tambaqui are usually harvested when they reach 1.2-3 kg and are sold as whole fish
or split into two halves which are sold separately. The ribs of the tambaqui are much
appreciated as is the loin and these parts are increasingly marketed separately.
CURRENT MARKET SIZE
Amazon aquaculture produced 234,000 tons of fish in 2021, roughly similar to the total
commercial catch of Amazon fisheries. Roundfish account for around 90% of Amazon
aquaculture production (roughly 210,000 tons) (PEIXE BR, 2021).
VOLUMES SOLD/CONSUMED
The Amazon region, especially those areas that were settled before the 1970s, have among
the highest per-capita fish consumption rates in Brazil. However, the rate of fish consumption
in the Amazon has declined considerably due to the widespread availability of poultry, beef
and pork, but is still far higher than the national average.
PROJECTED FUTURE MARKET SIZE

92

While tambaqui production has stagnated in recent years, exports of tambaqui to the US
have shown strong growth, increasing from US$ 75,185 in 2019 to US$ 562,809 in 2020
(PEIXE BR, 2021). In March, 2023, Tambaqui Ribs, won the top prize at the Seafood Expo
North America (KEARNS; SCALIA-BRUCE, 2023) This trend, underscores the potential of
expanding into the US and other international markets where consumers eat more fish and
are more open to trying new species. Assuming tambaqui production grows at the same rate
as Brazilian aquaculture 5%/yr, the national market for tambaqui could reach 350,000 tons
for the “roundfish” group as a whole. If producers are successful in developing demand for
tambaqui in the US, total sales could be far higher.
PRICE TRENDS
Tambaqui: Retail price of US$10-US$12/kg in Brazil. Whole sale price in US, $3.95/lb,
minimum order 2000 lbs/900kg from Netuno USA, Fort Lauderdale, USA.
HISTORY
The Amazon fisheries sector is undergoing a major transition. Originally based on the capture
of wild fish, it is increasingly based on fish produced through aquaculture. This shift was
precipitated in part by state environmental legislation implemented around 2006, which
prohibited farming of exotic species in Amazon states. Aquaculture researchers shifted to
Amazon fish species, especially the tambaqui and related species, among other popular
amazon fish species. Production of farmed fish has grown to fill the gap left by the depletion
of largely unregulated wild fisheries. Wild tambaqui once the dominant species in Amazon
fish markets is now largely absent from the major urban markets and has been replaced by
tambaqui and other round fish produced by Amazon fish farmers.
While aquaculture producers have been successful in taking over the Amazon market for wild
fish, expansion into national and international markets has been far more difficult. Brazilian
consumers outside the Amazon tend to have low per capita rates of fish consumption and
are unacquainted with amazon fish species. Amazon fish are priced at the high end of the
market for fish and consumers prefer better known species of similar price. In addition to
familiarity, other factors low productivity and relatively high production costs give amazon
fish little margin for competing with hybrid tilapia, salmon and other high productivity
exotics.
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS & ENVIRONMENT
The main contribution of tambaqui aquaculture and more generally Amazon aquaculture is
that it is a far more intensive land use system than conventional beef production. The same
amount of fish protein can be produced on 5% of the area required by beef (McGrath et al.,
2020). Therefore, producers who shift from beef to aquaculture can obtain the same total
returns while freeing up excess pasture for agroforestry and forestry production and actually
increase total farm income, while conserving forest.
TIME TO MATURITY

93

Farmed tambaqui reach marketable size of 1.2-2 kg in 8-12 months and over 2kg in 18 to 24
months.
PRODUCER PROFILE & SOCIAL IMPACTS
Aquaculture is practiced at a wide range of scales and producer profiles from smallholders to
large commercial enterprises. According to the 2017 census, 97% of Brazilian aquaculture
producers have between 0.1 and 5ha of ponds (IBGE, 2017). This size range also
characterizes Amazon producers. In fact, the average area of aquaculture ponds in two of the
main producing states, Paraná and Rondônia, is only about 2-3 hectares. In both states a
significant percent of producers also produce other commodities such as soy and or beef. In
fact the development of aquaculture in the Amazon state of Rondônia was driven by small
and medium scale beef producers who, discouraged by returns from beef, invested in
aquaculture.
PRODUCTION ISSUES
Aquaculture with native species such as the tambaqui is a relatively new production system,
and much research and development needed in virtually all areas of the production system
(McGrath et al., 2020). A major priority is the development of tambaqui genotypes that can
be used in selective breeding programs to develop high performing varieties adapted to
specific conditions. Feed is another area where research is needed to develop types of feed
that are optimal for different phases in the life cycle. Regulatory issues are another challenge
that involves both inadequate regulations and the high transaction costs of obtaining
environmental licenses.
Processing
If tambaqui is to increase demand in markets outside the Amazon, processors must develop
the more sophisticated cuts of tambaqui that consumers prefer. An example is the marketing
of tambaqui ribs that won the top prize in the 2023 Seafood Expo North America
SUPPLY CHAIN ISSUES
A major challenge in the Amazon is the development of cold chains that can reliably maintain
temperatures that conserve quality and ensure that fish reach the final consumer in optimal
condition. In many areas the cold chain infrastructure is fairly rudimentary and unreliable.
MARKETS
Numerous specialists have noted that tambaqui and other amazon fish species have great
export potential. Given low rates of fish consumption in Brazilian markets, export to markets
in the US and Europe with higher rates of per capita fish consumption may be a more
promising alternative. Consumer interest in US and European markets could be enhanced by
marketing strategies that emphasize the production of Amazon fish as an alternative to beef.
CARBON CREDIT/SEQUESTRATION POTENTIAL

94

There is considerable potential for carbon credits and sequestration arrangements that take
advantage of the high productivity and land use intensity of aquaculture relative to beef
production (McGrath et al., 2020). Forest carbon credits/offsets can provide incentives for
producers to shift from beef to aquaculture, releasing up to 90% of the pasture dedicated to
beef production. This area of pasture can be returned to forest, tree crops and/or
agroforestry systems, depending on compliance with the Forest Code. The developing REDD+
jurisdictional carbon offset market that state governments are now preparing to enter could
at least partially finance producers interested in investing in fish who reforest excess pasture
or convert to silviculture and/or agroforestry.
CERTIFICATION PROGRAMS
Certification programs for tambaqui aquaculture in Brazil are not widely available. However,
Peixe BR and other industry groups recognize the importance of certification and are working
with producers to improve production systems and come into compliance with international
standards for certification.
RELEVANT SECTORS
Suppliers
Suplliers
Zaltana Pescados, Ariquemes, Rondônia
Pescados do Vale

Site
https://zaltana.com.br/en/produtos/tambaqui/;
Contato@zaltanapescados.com.br
Rodovia 364, Linha C-40 - Ariquemes/RO
comercial@pescadosdovalero.com.br

Exporters
Exporters
Friolins

Site
Manaus, AM Friolins Pescados Ltda. is located at: R. Duque de Caxias, 266 - São Francisco,
Manacapuru - AM, 69400-380, Brazil., +55 92 3361-1425

US based Suppliers
Suppliers
Netuno USA, Ft Lauderdale

Site
https://netunousa.com/

REGULATORY INFORMATION
NCM: 0302.89.4, 0302.44, 0303.89.64, 0303.89.6

95

2.20 TAPEREBÁ (Spondias mombin L.)
Taperebá is a fruit species native to tropical America and is common in the Amazon region,
where it occurs in the wild state, and also in the Northeast where it is known as cajá,
cajá-mirim, cajá-pequeno, yellow mombin, jobo, true caja. The Taperebá tree occurs both in
floodplain forest and on dry land. The fruit pulp has high economic potential and growing
demand in the North and Northeast regions of Brazil.
Taperebá is among the Amazonian fruits that generates great interest in the national and
international markets. Due to the lack of commercial plantations, agroindustries are totally
dependent on the production obtained from the extraction of plants in areas where it ocurs
naturally. Despite the significant potential of this species, its participation in the domestic
market is very small and the commercialization of fruits for export is minimal (TSUKUI,
MATIIIETTO, NEVES, VEIGA, 2012).

PRODUCT
Fruit: The fruits are marketed and can be consumed "in natura".
Pulp: Frozen pulp is the main form of the product for the retail market and is widely available
in supermarkets. The pulp has a yield of up to 60% and can be used in the production of
juices, jellies, ice cream, nectars, popsicles that are widely accepted in the market due to
their excellent flavor and high nutritional value.
BY-PRODUCT
There has been as yet little development of subproducts derived from the taperebá fruit
(CARVALHO, 2003; LOPES, 2023; RIBEIRO, 2022).
CURRENT MARKET SIZE
Taperebá is generally consumed locally or sold in nearby markets; only about 4% of
processed products reach consumers, mostly in the form of frozen pulp or pasteurized fruit
juice (TNC, 2021). We were unable to find sources of data on state or national production of
taperebá.
SIZE OF THE PROJECTED FUTURE MARKET

96

There is very limited data available on state and national taperebá prodution. However,
taperebá pulp and conserved juice are already widely available in the Amazon region and in
northeast Brazil. Of the lesser known Amazon fruits, taperebá probably has the best
prospects for accessing the national and international market. It is delicious and unlike
cupuaçu has a flavor that is immediately attractive to most people (TNC, 2021).
VOLUMES SOLD/CONSUMED
In 2021, the local processing industry generated a gross production value estimated at BRL
144.61 thousand, resulting from sales to local consumers of the final product from the fruit
(juices and ice cream). The urban retail sector obtained R$ 60.74 thousand as Gross
Production Value (GPV), largely originating from the sale of the fruit in pulp and/or in natura
to final consumers. Rural retail produced a VBP of R$9.20 thousand, mainly due to sales
made at the local level, in which the urban retail sector was the main buyer (TNC, 2021).
PRICE TREND
Local processing industry, variation according to market activity of the agents that compose
it. The sale price per association established by the Pnae was R$ 2.40/kg. Other sales in the
sector were carried out by cooperatives, which, in addition to supplying the local market
(sold to the processing industry and urban retail sectors, at R$ 2.88/kg and R$ 2.19/kg,
respectively), was the only agent to sell to the domestic market, at R$1.54/kg for urban
retailers (IPEA, 2016).
HISTORY
Amazonian fruit, of great nutritional and economic value, characterized by its unique aroma
and flavor, which has been increasingly used in the manufacture of various products, such as
sweets, juices and drinks, characteristics that make it an ingredient with great potential for
use in the brewing industry. An incipiently domesticated species, the Amazon is one of the
largest producers of the fruit, with production directed towards the diet of the extractive
farmer himself and the remainder goes to the local market. The taperebá fruit is harvested
not only to meet the demands of the local market in the production region, but also in other
parts of the country, where it is highly appreciated and marketed mainly as frozen pulp
(ANICETO, 2017; RIBEIRO, 2022).
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS AND ENVIRONMENT: AGROFORESTRY, WILD HARVESTING,
PLANTING
As it is a perennial fruit tree in the final stages of domestication, much of the taperebá
produced in the Amazon region occurs in house gardens and surrounding agroforests.
Taparebá is often planted with cocoa ( Theobroma cacao , L.), in agroforestry systems
(MACÊDO, 2007) in which the taperebá provides shade for the cocoa plants. In many areas
farmers plant seedlings of important tree species, such as taperebá, in abandoned fields to
enrich the secondary forest that develops on the site. In Northeast Brazil more intensive,
partially mechanized production systems have been developed to supply local processing

97

plants producing taperebá pulp and juice. These systems can be up to 5 times more
productive per hectare than conventional extensive systems. Given the popularity of
taperebá as a fruit juice, the trend towards more intensive systems supplying local
processors is likely to gain momentum.
PRODUCER PROFILE AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
Currently, taperebá is produced mostly by family farmers with varying degrees of commercial
orientation and marketed through local intermediaries, which reduces the profit margin of
the producers (IPEA, 2016).
PRODUCTION PROBLEMS
Bringing species from its wild state to sustainable production and leaving dependence on the
extractive system. In the production of fruits destined for the juice industry, emphasis should
be placed on technologies that give the fruits a high juice yield, good consistency and high
sugar and acidity content. Experience in NE Brazil demonstrate the potential improving
production by cloning improved varieties.
SUPPLY CHAIN ISSUES
Identification of propagation materials that have high productive capacity and improved fruit
quality characteristics in agronomic models. Lack of production technologies, is one of the
main obstacles to commercial exploitation (GONZAGA FILHO, 2018) and distance from
processing facilities to produce juice and frozen pulp.
CARBON CREDIT/SEQUESTRATION POTENTIAL
Since carbon is an important indicator in the context of combating climate change, Taperebá
is a native tree of the Amazon Basin with the potential to increase the forest carbon stock
through agrforestry systems and in the reforestation of degraded areas.
CERTIFICATION PROGRAMS
Product that does not hold certification.
RELEVANT INDUSTRIES
Food and beverage. Demand for organic and sustainable products.
Retailer
Cooperativa Agrícola Mista de Tomé Açu (CAMTA)

Site
Belém: https://www.camta.com.br/index.php/tapereba

IMPORT/EXPORT TARIFFS AND COMPLIANCE
Tariffs will be given according to trade agreements, tariff preferences and legislation
applicable to foreign trade (BRAZIL, 2023).
CGEN/NAGOYA BIOCULTURAL RIGHTS AND PROTECTION CONCERNS
The Brazilian adherence to the Nagoya Protocol, Legislative Decree No. 136 of 08/11/2020,
ratified by the national executive that took place in March 2021, can leverage the production
chain of Açaí due to the use and exploitation of genetic heritage by other countries.

98

REGULATORY INFORMATION
Name inci: Spondias mombin L.
Harmonized System Code: It has no specific code, identified as: Preparations of vegetables,
fruits or other parts of plants - with NCM code: 2008.97.10.

99

2.21 URUCUM (Bixa orellana) - ANNATTO
Urucum or Colorau is the fruit of the urucuzeiro or urucueiro, a species of the Bixaceae
family, native to tropical America, which is used to produce natural dyes. The annatto dye
can be produced in the form of powder, paste, suspension or solution. The coloration varies
from yellow-orange to reddish-brown.

PRODUCT
Seeds – pigment extracted from the outside of its seeds, rich in carotenoids, is a natural dye
used in the food, cosmetic and textile industry.
CURRENT MARKET SIZE
The global market for annatto was valued at USD 227.53 million in 2022 (Fact.MR, 2023).
In 2021 Brazil produced 12,252t (R$65,551,000) of annatto. The Amazon region accounted
for 18% of the national total (2,240t) with the states of Pará (940t) and Rondônia (806t) the
main Amazonian producers (IBGE, 2021).
PROJECTED FUTURES MARKET SIZE
The global market for annatto is expected to grow at a CAGR of 5% between 2022 and 2032
to reach USD370.62 million in 2032 (Fact.MR, 2023).
VOLUMES SOLD/CONSUMED
From 2009, production of urucum grew by 20%, from 12,472t (2009) to 15,637t (2019).
Production decreased from 2019 to 2021 (12,279t) this may have been a result of disruption
caused by the covid pandemic. Despite growing demand for natural dyes, producers find it
difficult to market their output due to bottlenmecks in supply chain for industries in the state
of São Paulo (IBGE, 2021; ARMCHAIRIERI; BOTELHO, 2006).
TRENDS IN PRICES
In a comparative analysis of estimated prices in Brazilian states in 2021, the values for a kilo
of annatto seed ranged from US$ 1.80 (Espírito Santo) to US$ 0.26 in the adjacent state of
Rio de Janeiro. For the states of the Brazilian Amazon, the values ranged from US$ 0.95
(Pará) to US$ 0.28 (Amazonas), with a national average value of US$ 1.05 (IBGE, 2021).
HISTORY

100

Annatto was the first vegetable dye exported from the Americas to Europe on a large scale.
The word annatto originates from the Tupi-Guarani language transliterated "uru-ku" and
means "red". In Spanish-speaking countries it is known as 'achiote'. It is traditionally used by
the Brazilian Indians and Peruvians, as a source of raw material for red tinctures, used many
purposes, among them, to protect the skin against the sun and from insect bites. The
artisanal processes of obtaining the dyes from annatto seeds, learned from the Indians, was
used for a long time (Agrospice, 2023).
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS AND ENVIRONMENT: AGROFORESTRY, WILD HARVESTING,
PLANTATION
Urucum is a medium-sized tree/shrub that produces for more than 20 years. The main
product extracted from the urucum trees/shrubs is bixin, a substance that is found in the
seed cover layer. Of the pigment mass existing in the pericarp of annatto seeds, 80% consists
of a carotenoid called bixin, which has a coloring property that can be extracted via
vegetable oils or a chemical base. For commercial crops, it is important to use cultivars that
present at least 3% bixin to be viable. The annatto has also been shown to be an excellent
option for cultivating in agroforestry systems, adaptable to various types of management
(Emater, 2021; FABRI et al., 2016) .
MATURITY TIME
The productivity of the annatto tree is quite varied and depends on the soil conditions, the
age of the plant, the type and cultivar, and also the cultural treatments used throughout the
year. Fruiting can begin in the first year and gradually increases, until the fourth year, when
the level of production stabilizes. The expected production of an adult annatto is at least
1,500 kg/ha of dried seeds. The capsules appear at the tips of the branches, forming clusters,
which are cut approximately 20 cm below the beginning of the capsules.
In northern and northeastern Brazil, harvesting begins approximately 90 days after the
opening of the flower. The time for harvesting is when 20% of the bunches are dry. The
subsequent operation consists of drying the capsules in the sun, taking care that the seeds
contained in the capsules are not exposed to heat, which causes a loss in the quality and
quantity of pigment (Emater, 2021).
PRODUCER PROFILE AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
Annatto is produced by small scale farmers, who rely on middleman to market their crop,
which reduces the farmers’ profit margin. It can be an important component of farmer
income. The income generated, in turn, is distributed among the different actors of the value
chains. The chain is strongly pro-local economy, which highlight the importance of this crop
in generating rural income and employment (TNC, 2022).
PRODUCTION PROBLEMS

101

Diseases and insect predation are the main problems. The annatto is a very demanding of
plant nutrients, and requires balanced fertilization in the nursery phase to ensure the
formation of seedlings with greater development capacity in the field (Emater, 2021).
SUPPLY CHAIN PROBLEMS
The adoption of best practices in cultivation and initial processing are essential as they have
a direct influence on the quality of the final product (Emater, 2021).
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PROCESSING AND SIZING
Implementation of rural development policies: Science, Technology and Innovation (ST&I),
credit and technical assistance; Creation of a continuous database system of the product
value chain;
Creation of tax incentives for sociobiodiversity products and application of a differentiated
rate for interstate trade operations and exports to other countries, as these are specific
products linked to the biodiversity of the biome (TNC, 2022).
CARBON CREDIT/SEQUESTRATION POTENTIAL
Cultivated urucuum has been shown to be an excellent alternative for inclusion in
agroforestry systems and can adapt to various management systems in which it is used as a
perennial species (FABRI et al., 2016).
CERTIFICATION PROGRAMS
RELEVANT SECTORS
Aggregators/suppliers
Retailer
Amazon
Forest
Trading
Amazon Florals
Amazonoil

Site
https://amazonforestrading.com.br/produto/extratos-e-oleos/extrato-natural-da-amaz
onia-de-urucum/
https://floraisdaamazonia.com.br/flores/urucum/
https://www.amazonoil.com.br/produtos-da-floresta/urucum-bixina-orellana/

IMPORT/EXPORT TARIFFS AND COMPLIANCE
Data for annatto are added to other dyes of plant or animal origin.
BIOCULTURAL PROTECTIONS
PROTOCOL/ETC.)

OF

COMMUNITIES

OF

ORIGIN

(NAGOYA/CGEN

The Brazilian adherence to the Nagoya Protocol, Legislative Decree No. 136 of 08/11/2020,
ratified by the national executive in March 2021, can leverage the production chain of
annatto seeds due to the use and exploitation of genetic heritage by other countries.
REGULATORY INFORMATION
HS No. for import and export of annatto – No. 3203 – Colouring matters of vegetable or
animal origin (including colouring extracts, but excluding animal black)
NCM No. (Common Nomenclature in Mercosur) – 2106.90.30

102

