AMAZON-POSITIVE FUNDS

LOOKBOOK 2022

AMAZON INVESTOR COALITION

The Amazon Forest
is worth more alive and standing
than cut and burned

AMAZON-POSITIVE FUNDS
LOOKBOOK
DECEMBER 2022
1

AMAZON-POSITIVE FUNDS

LOOKBOOK 2022

AMAZON-POSITIVE FUNDS
LOOKBOOK
DECEMBER 2022

2

AMAZON INVESTOR COALITION

AMAZON-POSITIVE FUNDS

LOOKBOOK 2022

AMAZON INVESTOR COALITION

WHAT WE DO

The Amazon Investor Coalition is a nonprofit impact
finance learning-and-collaboration platform whose
mission is to increase and improve investments in forestfriendly economic development and the rule of law
across the Amazon region. We unite global investors,
philanthropists, companies, and allies, in partnership with
Amazonian entrepreneurs, governments, indigenous
nations, and civil society to flip the economic script on
deforestation. The Amazon Investor Coalition is a joint
program of the Earth Innovation Institute and the Giving
Back Fund, in collaboration with NEXUS, and support
from Partnerships for Forests, and other partners. The
partnership between the Amazon Investor Coalition
(AIC) and the CERTI Foundation is supported by the
Partnerships for Forests program.
The Amazon Investor Coalition has joined forces with
Capital for Climate to accelerate capital deployment to
Amazon nature-based solutions.

1

AMAZON-POSITIVE FUNDS

LOOKBOOK 2022

AMAZON INVESTOR COALITION

AMAZON
FOREST-POSITIVE
INVESTMENT FUNDS
A growing number of funds/vehicles are
looking to deliver market rate returns
alongside measurable impact linked to
growing enterprises within the Amazon
bioeconomy. Of these, the funds in this
Lookbook show the range of investment
vehicles focused in the region – some offer
technical assistance, medium- to longterm finance as debt and/or equity

2

and a focus on helping community and/or
indigenous led enterprises. All have expert
management teams, a strong focus on
biodiversity and community co-benefits,
and are designed for institutional investors
who want to help protect the planet. The
six funds span blended finance, venture,
and impact investments.

AMAZON-POSITIVE FUNDS

LOOKBOOK 2022

AMAZON INVESTOR COALITION

CONTENTS

THE CONEXSUS IMPACT FUND

4

VERT

5

THE SELVA FUND

6

IMPACT EARTH/AMAZON BIODIVERSITY FUND

7

ECOENTERPRISES FUND

8

MOV INVESTIMENTOS

9

3

AMAZON-POSITIVE FUNDS

LOOKBOOK 2022

AMAZON INVESTOR COALITION

THE CONEXSUS
IMPACT FUND
G EO GR APHY
Brazil

FU ND SIZ E
Target of USD $10 million

Investment Approach
The Conexsus Impact Fund structures, raises
funding and implements new investment
vehicles to scale adequate financing for the
development of community-led enterprises, as
well as impact small and growing businesses
in inclusive bioeconomy value chains in
Brazil. Through the support of sustainable

Fund Manager Experience
CX Investimentos Socioambientais is a
blended finance services enterprise and a
catalytic capital manager, fully owned and
controlled by Conexsus. Conexsus is an NGO
activating the ecosystem of community-led
rural and forest enterprises. Conexsus founder
and executive director Carina Pimenta is the
director of the Conexsus Impact Fund. Rafael
Ribeiro, the Fund Manager, specializes in the
structuring and implementation of innovative

4

extractivism, Conexsus aims to keep forests
standing and restore degraded lands and
biodiversity through the implementation of
agroforestry systems. They are currently
finalizing the structuring of their first market
regulated vehicle with an expected initial close
in December 2023.

impact finance instruments and has worked
as an M&A advisor and impact investment
portfolio manager.
They launched their first fund in August 2020.
Since then they have deployed more than USD
3 million to over 90 community-led enterprises
and a few SGBs operating across their
value chains.

AMAZON-POSITIVE FUNDS

LOOKBOOK 2022

AMAZON INVESTOR COALITION

VERT

G EO GR APH Y
Amazon, Chaco, and
Cerrado

FUN D SIZ E
Target of $38 million USD

Investment Approach
Vert works the complete debt capital markets
ecosystem solution with specific services
catered towards small and medium players, all
the way from structuring the deal, distributing it,
and managing its portfolio. Vert is proposing a
blended finance structure that will share the risk
with the farmer and create an aligned incentive

on the ground. This will be composed of three
points:
-Up to 10-year credit line to finance the
transition, with a 3-year grace period
-Income Transition Guarantee
-A Technical Assistance Facility

Fund Manager Experience
Since 2016, VERT has issued more than +BRL
50 billion, in over 200 deals. VERT’s Asset
management today currently processes over
one million installments monthly, and has
risen from its 3 founders to a team of over 160
people. Likewise, VERT has fundraised with
more than 100 institutional investors, serving
both partners and investors independently.
VERT was born with best-in-class governance
structures, audited by KPMG, and invested
from the start by CVCIB, private equity fund
from the Citigroup Venture Capital International
(CVCIB) family of funds. VERT is also among
the top issuers of green and social bonds, 5
out of the 7 social bonds issued in Brazil in
2021 were done by VERT. It is also a founding
signatory of IFACC, a UN led initiative for

sustainable agriculture through innovative
financing of the Amazon, Chaco and Cerrado
regions of South America. Still, it is an active
participant in strategic sustainability and
financial markets discussions in Brazil that
occur in Anbima, The Laboratory for Financial
Innovation and Climate Bonds Initiative.
Paula Peirão is currently VP ESG at VERT. She
has twelve years of experience in sustainable
finance, developing sustainability integration
strategies in financial institutions, including
incorporating socio-environmental risk analysis
and designing new financial mechanisms in the
credit, investment and insurance segments.

5

AMAZON-POSITIVE FUNDS

TSF
G EO GR APHY
Amazon

FU ND SIZ E
Target of USD $75 million

LOOKBOOK 2022

AMAZON INVESTOR COALITION

THE SELVA FUND
Investment Approach
The Selva Fund is an open-ended fund that
will provide medium to long-term finance (3-8
years) and technical assistance to invest
in small and medium enterprises (SMEs)
operating in the bioeconomy-based, forestcompatible, and sustainable commodities
production value-chains in the Amazon region
of Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru. SMEs
financed by Selva are expected to contribute to
the protection and restoration of the Amazon
Forest whilst supporting reliable, legal and

sustainable livelihoods for local communities
in the regions above mentioned. Selva Fund
will have, through its manager, Palladium,
access to pipeline opportunities, such as those
identified through publicly funded programs
(such as Partnerships for Forests) and the ones
generated through Palladium’s engagement
with large private companies and banks with
interests in supporting forest protection and the
shortening of value chains.

Fund Manager Experience
Palladium brings a strong track-record in
identifying and developing investable business
models that generate income from protecting or
restoring high value natural ecosystems through
the implementation of large government and
private sector sponsored programmes in the
Amazon region of Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador and
Peru. Palladium has worked across a spectrum
over 220 forest commodities - from carbon to
biodiversity credits to cocoa, coffee rubber, beef,
timber, essential oils, rare foods, and seeds. Selva
Fund will capitalise on this established network
of off-takers and SMEs integrated in their supply
chains and innovative business models anchored
in sustainability principles supported by large
multinational players.

6

The fund is managed by Tatiana Alves,
Director of Sustainable Finance at Palladium.
Tatiana has worked for the last 25 years on the
intersection between finance and sustainability,
10 of which were in the Brazilian financial sector
as a correspondent banking manager and as
an international products specialist attending
corporate clients in the food, agribusiness,
energy, pharmaceutical and auto sectors. She
has dedicated the last 15 years of her career in the
design and implementation of financial products
and mechanisms alongside impact related
programs that channel investments in key sectors
and activities towards a sustainable, equitable and
low carbon economy in Latin America.

AMAZON-POSITIVE FUNDS

LOOKBOOK 2022

AMAZON INVESTOR COALITION

IMPACT EARTH/AMAZON
BIODIVERSITY FUND
G EO GR APH Y
Brazil

FUN D SIZ E
Target of USD $55 million

Investment Approach
The Amazon Biodiversity Fund Brazil is an
impact investment fund that invests in projects
and businesses that have a positive impact
on biodiversity and communities in the Legal
Amazon of Brazil. The fund uses mainly
revenue and carbon backed debt financing, as
well as convertible debt and equity in
specific cases.
The fund is filling a clear a funding gap in the
Amazon that exists today, providing venture

stage funding to high impact businesses
and projects, aiming to leverage on trends in
healthy eating, environmental awareness and
sustainable supply chains in wider
Brazilian society.
The fund is domiciled in Brazil as a FIP, has
raised BRL 92m as of today from 3 institutional
investors, with a hard cap of BRL 300m.

Fund Manager Experience
The fund’s administrator in Brazil is Vox
Capital and the investment advisor is Impact
Earth. Impact Earth is a spin out of Mirova
Natural Capital, where the team launched ABF
together in 2020 and also led multiple natural
capital funds and strategies at Mirova (and
previously, Althelia).
Impact Earth is an employee-owned,
investment advisor focussed on pioneering
impact investment strategies in emerging
markets. The team has decades of experience
in impact investing, carbon finance and nature

based solutions. The team has been investing
in the Brazilian Amazon since 2016 and Impact
Earth has been operating a Brazil-based team
since 2019.
The fund has made 5 investments so far in
Pará, Amazonas and Rondônia, with a wide
range of investments across sectors ranging
from food & beverage to ecological restoration.

7

AMAZON-POSITIVE FUNDS

LOOKBOOK 2022

AMAZON INVESTOR COALITION

ECOENTERPRISES
FUND
G EO GR APHY
Amazon, Andes, and
Meso-America

FU ND SIZ E
Target of USD $200 million

Investment Approach
EcoEnterprises Fund provides growth capital to
small companies to boost biodiversity, promote
climate solutions and create socio-economic
opportunities concurrent with generating
financial returns. Investment verticals include:
biodiversity and natural ecosystems, climate
and a low carbon economy, and social equity,
sectors related to sustainability of natural
resources, livelihoods of local peoples, with a
focus on women and Indigenous communities,
regenerative food systems, and emerging

opportunities in alt-proteins, renewable
energy and climate tech. The Fund invests in
companies in important biodiverse landscapes
in the Amazon, Andes and Meso-America,
including financing North American and
European companies which have presence
in Latin America and other Global South
countries. The fourth fund under management,
EcoEnterprises Partners IV, LP continues the
legacy of achieving measurable results at scale.

Fund Manager Experience
EcoEnterprises Fund is a women-owned
investment manager with an unparalleled track
record of nearly 25 years building naturepositive portfolios. They are led by Tammy E.
Newmark, a pioneer in impact investing, and
backed by an established team with more than
a decade working together.

8

AMAZON-POSITIVE FUNDS

LOOKBOOK 2022

AMAZON INVESTOR COALITION

MOV
INVESTIMENTOS
G EO GR APH Y
Amazon

FUN D SIZ E
Target of USD $20 million

Investment Approach
MOV Investimentos is an impact investments
manager operating in Brazil since 2012,
seeking competitive financial returns along
with intentional, measurable, and transforming
socio-environmental impact through business
related to forests, biodiversity, agriculture, and
education. MOV makes equity investments
in innovative and scalable companies,

supporting entrepreneurs that work to reverse
environmental degradation and reduce social
inequalities. The new portfolio strategy for
their upcoming fund is to support sustainable
alternatives for the whole deforestation
spectrum of the Amazon, from protecting
untouched forests to promoting previously
degraded land recovery.

Founder Paulo Bellotti has been working with
impact venture capital since 2005, with 30+
completed transactions and around USD
$300 million invested. The management
team brings together expertise in venture
capital, private equity, strategic consulting,
operations, corporate governance, corporate

finance, environmental law, and public policy
management in Brazil. MOV is currently raising
its second fund, FIP MOV 2, to make 6 to 8
investments in companies that implement
Nature-based Solutions, especially in the
Brazilian Amazon.

Fund Manager Experience

9

AMAZON-POSITIVE FUNDS

LOOKBOOK 2022

AMAZON INVESTOR COALITION

PARTNERS
Capital for Climate
Capital for Climate (C4C) is accelerating capital deployment to climate solutions
required to achieve a 1.5°C degree outcome. It provides an integrated offering,
including a climate solution intelligence platform, hosted investor communities,
and education and strategic advisory services. At COP26, in collaboration with
the U.N.’s High-Level Climate Champions, C4C launched a free, public-purpose
pilot version of their platform focused on Nature-based Solutions. Early funders
include the Finance Hub of the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation, Quadrature
Climate Foundation, Wells Fargo Foundation, and Climateworks Foundation.

Earth Innovation Institute
The Earth Innovation Institute promotes the transition to low-emission rural
development, a shift to economic growth across political boundaries that keeps
the forest standing and rewards forest communities, farmers, and fishermen for
using sustainable practices.

Partnerships for Forests
Partnerships for Forests (P4F) catalyzes investments in which the private
sector, public sector and communities can achieve shared value from forests
and sustainable land use. P4F is a program of the UK’s Foreign Commonwealth
and Development Office (FCDO), currently operating in Central, East and West
Africa, Southeast Asia and Latin America. It is implemented by Palladium
and Systemiq.

CERTI
Founded in 1984, Fundação CERTI is a Brazilian nonprofit with experience
nurturing and developing entrepreneurial innovation ecosystems. In the Amazon,
CERTI leads the Jornada Amazônia initiative, which aims to contribute to
forest conservation by activating the impact entrepreneurship and innovation
ecosystem and promoting the competitiveness of the standing forest.

Neither the Amazon Investor Coalition nor Capital for Climate have any financial relationship with
the entities profiled. None of these materials are to be construed as solicitations for investment nor
financial advice.

10

AMAZON-POSITIVE FUNDS

LOOKBOOK 2022

AMAZON INVESTOR COALITION

MATT PORTMAN
Director of Investments
Matt@AmazonInvestor.org

11

AMAZON-POSITIVE FUNDS

12

LOOKBOOK 2022

AMAZON INVESTOR COALITION

