Sustainability-Related Disclosures
Article 10 SFDR – Sustainability-Related Information About Financial Products That
Promote Environmental or Social Characteristics
Earlybird GmbH & Co. KG (“Earlybird”), LEI 529900OPVG0POG9FIY70, is the alternative
investment fund manager of Earlybird Fund VII GmbH & Co. geschl. InvKG (“Earlybird VII”),
LEI: 391200UEU4BULG9T2S58, within the meaning of the German Investment Code
(Kapitalanlagegesetzbuch) and the EuVECA-Regulation and as such publishes the following
information in light of the consideration of sustainability-related aspects in accordance with
Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November
2019 on sustainability disclosure requirements in the financial services sector (“SFDR”).
Summary
This financial product promotes environmental or social characteristics but does not have as
its objective a sustainable investment within the meaning of Article 2 No. 17 SFDR. The
promoted characteristics are investment restrictions. 100% of the investments will be in line
with its investment strategy and investment restrictions.
No reference benchmark has been designated to attain the environmental or social
characteristics promoted by the financial product.
Zusammenfassung
Dieses Finanzprodukt bewirbt ökologische oder soziale Merkmale, strebt aber keine
nachhaltigen Investitionen im Sinne der Definition des Artikel 2 Nr. 17 SFDR an. Bei den
beworbenen Merkmalen handelt es sich um Ausschlusskriterien. 100 % der Investitionen
werden im Einklang mit der Anlagestrategie und den Anlagebeschränkungen getätigt.
Es wurde kein Referenzwert benannt, um die mit dem Finanzprodukt beworbenen
ökologischen oder sozialen Merkmale zu erreichen.
No Sustainable Investment Objective
This financial product promotes environmental or social characteristics, but does not have as
its objective sustainable investment.
Environmental or Social Characteristics of the Financial Product
The promoted characteristics of this product are investment restrictions.

Page 1/5

Earlybird VII will not invest, guarantee, or otherwise provide financial or other support, directly
or indirectly, to companies or other entities:
●

whose business activity consists of an illegal economic activity (i.e., any production, trade
or other activity, which is illegal under the laws or regulations applicable to Earlybird VII
or the relevant company or entity, including without limitation, human cloning for
reproduction purposes); or

●

which substantially focus on:
●

the production of and trade in tobacco and distilled alcoholic beverages and related
products;

●

the financing of the production of and trade in weapons and ammunition of any
kind, it being understood that this restriction does not apply to the extent such
activities are part of or accessory to explicit European Union policies;

●

casinos and equivalent enterprises;

●

the research, development or technical applications relating to electronic data
programs or solutions, which
○

aim specifically at:
●

supporting any activity referred to above;

●

internet gambling and online casinos;

●

pornography, or

●

are intended to enable to illegally:
●

enter into electronic data networks; or

●

download electronic data;

●

fossil fuel-based energy production and related activities; or

●

energy-intensive and/or high CO2-emitting industries (unless they are taxonomycompliant)

In addition, when providing support to the financing of the research, development or technical
applications relating to (i) human cloning for research or therapeutic purposes or (ii) genetically
modified organisms (“GMOs”), Earlybird shall ensure the appropriate control of legal,
regulatory, and ethical issues linked to such human cloning for research or therapeutic
purposes and/or GMOs.
No reference benchmark has been designated for the purpose of attaining the environmental
and social characteristics promoted by Earlybird VII.
Investment Strategy
Earlybird VII is a venture capital fund aiming at investments in innovative companies with high
growth potential in their expansion stages which develop as main business any activity
comprising the renewal and enlargement of a range of products and services and their
Page 2/5

associated markets; the establishment of new methods of design, production, supply and
distribution; the introduction of changes in management, work organization, and working
conditions and skills of the workforce; and covering technological, non-technological and
organizational innovation.
Earlybird VII shall only invest in Portfolio Companies that, at the time of the initial investment
therein by Earlybird VII qualify as SMEs or Mid-Caps.
Earlybird VII has a regional focus on companies which have at the time of Earlybird VII’s initial
investment their statutory seat or center of business activities in Western Europe. An amount
equal to at least two-thirds of the amounts drawn down from Investor Partners for the purpose
of investments shall be invested in Portfolio Companies based or active in the territory of the
Member States of the European Union or in candidate and potential candidate countries
(recognized as such by the European Union).
Furthermore, Earlybird applies the investment restrictions outlined above. As part of the due
diligence and ongoing investment management, the investment team will review whether a
potential portfolio company has good governance practices in place.
Proportion of Investments
Earlybird VII will only make investments aligned with the promoted environmental or social
characteristics. Earlybird VII will not invest a portion of its capital in any other asset class.
Monitoring of Environmental or Social Characteristics
The investment team for Earlybird VII will initially and continuously monitor whether the
investment restrictions are abided by and whether the investment falls within the investment
policies. Earlybird VII will not make any investment in the excluded sectors unless previously
approved by the advisory committee. Therefore, the achievement of the promoted
environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) aspects – no investment within the excluded
sectors – can be tracked in a simple way.
Methodologies for Environmental or Social Characteristics
Earlybird VII considers ESG aspects in different stages of the investment process.
●

Screening

ESG issues are an integral part of Earlybird VII’s screening process. Earlybird VII raises
awareness amongst the investment team to keep ESG issues in mind and raise red flags early
in the investment process.
●

Investment Criteria: ESG Questionnaire
Page 3/5

During the Due Diligence process, the investment team members fill out the ESG
Questionnaire. The goal of the questionnaire is to confirm that either there are no ESG risk
issues, or that they can be sufficiently mitigated. Moreover, the questionnaire is used to assess
the status regarding ESG and impact of the company and identify focus areas of improvement
to be tackled after investment.
●

Investment Agreement

Earlybird VII includes a sustainability clause in all new investment agreements. The company
commits to implement a climate and ESG policy within three months of closing and a diversity
strategy within six months of closing. The policy entails appropriate measures and actions to
implement and track the progress of the ESG policy which will be reviewed and monitored by
the board of directors on a regular basis.
●

Active Ownership

The board of directors is ultimately responsible for developing the portfolio company’s
sustainability strategy and linking evidence of improved ESG performance to the company’s
value.
Data Sources and Processing
Earlybird VII receives data provided by the portfolio companies as part of the due diligence
process and at regular intervals after the investment. Where necessary or beneficial,
Earlybird VII also makes use of publicly available data. Data processing is exclusively internal
and DSGVO compliant. Estimates of data are not made.
Limitations to Methodologies and Data
Earlybird VII is partly reliant on the information provided by the potential portfolio companies
during the due diligence process. Moreover, in the post-investment phase, Earlybird VII is
reliant on the company’s reported data. In both cases, complete data may not always be
available due to the nature of investments. information is verified only where
misrepresentations are suspected.
Due Diligence
For the ESG assessment process as described above, Earlybird VII is partly reliant on the
information collected via the ESG Questionnaires as part of the due diligence and thereby
follows industry standard procedures to complete the ESG Questionnaires. Where
necessary, Earlybird VII will engage with external (data-) providers to develop a coherent ESG
due diligence in case further information is necessary to validate the investment. The due
diligence process is not externally monitored.
Page 4/5

Engagement Policies
As the investments of Earlybird VII are made for several years, Earlybird considers it a priority
to establish and maintain a trustful relationship with its portfolio companies. Earlybird VII wants
to generate a positive impact beyond its portfolio companies and share learnings and scientific
insights, cooperating with other venture capital firms as well as public institutions and
foundations to advance the whole ecosystem. Yet, if Earlybird VII identifies deviations from its
environmental or social investment strategy, including breaches of sustainability-related
management procedures in portfolio companies, Earlybird envisages engaging with the
respective portfolio company in order to implement mitigation measures. As a venture capital
investor, the influence Earlybird VII has on its portfolio companies through its shareholdings,
however, is limited but dialogue is sought with all stakeholders on a continuous basis.

Revised on 1st of July 2025 to incorporate regulatory updates resulting from the full BaFin
license granted to Earlybird GmbH & Co. KG.

Page 5/5

