Sustainability-Related Disclosures
Article 10 SFDR – Sustainability-Related Information About Financial Products That
Promote Environmental or Social Characteristics
Earlybird GmbH & Co. KG (“Earlybird”), LEI 529900OPVG0POG9FIY70, is the alternative
investment
fund
manager
of
Earlybird
Growth
Opportunities
Fund V
GmbH & Co. geschl. InvKG
(“Earlybird
Growth
Opportunities V”),
LEI: 3912001QS1GQMM6GYR91, within the meaning of the German Investment Code
(Kapitalanlagegesetzbuch) and the EuVECA-Regulation and as such publishes the following
information in light of the consideration of sustainability-related aspects in accordance with
Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November
2019 on sustainability disclosure requirements in the financial services sector (“SFDR”).
Summary
This financial product promotes environmental or social characteristics but does not have as
its objective a sustainable investment within the meaning of Article 2 No. 17 SFDR. The
promoted characteristics are investment restrictions. 100% of the investments will be in line
with its investment strategy and investment restrictions.
No reference benchmark has been designated to attain the environmental or social
characteristics promoted by the financial product.
Zusammenfassung
Dieses Finanzprodukt bewirbt ökologische oder soziale Merkmale, strebt aber keine
nachhaltigen Investitionen im Sinne der Definition des Artikel 2 Nr. 17 SFDR an. Bei den
beworbenen Merkmalen handelt es sich um Ausschlusskriterien. 100 % der Investitionen
werden im Einklang mit der Anlagestrategie und den Anlagebeschränkungen getätigt.
Es wurde kein Referenzwert benannt, um die mit dem Finanzprodukt beworbenen
ökologischen oder sozialen Merkmale zu erreichen.
No Sustainable Investment Objective
This financial product promotes environmental or social characteristics, but does not have as
its objective sustainable investment.
Environmental or Social Characteristics of the Financial Product
The promoted characteristics of this product are investment restrictions.
Page 1/5

Earlybird Growth Opportunities V will not invest in portfolio companies which engage in, or that
directly or indirectly control another entity which business activity is any one or more of the
following:
●

arms industry and arms trading;

●

gambling industry;

●

tobacco industry;

●

human cloning; or

●

GMOs (i.e. genetically modified organisms) trading or research and development
relating to GMOs.

Earlybird Growth Opportunities V will ensure through corporate governance or otherwise that
portfolio companies continue to comply with the above restriction during the term of the
investment.
No reference benchmark has been designated for the purpose of attaining the environmental
and social characteristics promoted by Earlybird Growth Opportunities V.
Investment Strategy
Earlybird Growth Opportunities V is a venture capital fund aiming at investments in growth
companies, including Portfolio Companies in which an entity managed or advised by an affiliate
of Earlybird directly or indirectly holds an investment of any type, addressing a large
mainstream market; with proven business models with the potential to disrupt markets with a
strong product DNA; with unique or leadership position regarding their product, technology,
scalability or market approach; with strong management personalities; with a high degree of
defensibility resulting from forward- and backward- looking lock-in effects as well as network
effects and marketplace mechanics; if applicable, with foreseeable regulatory environment;
where the Partnership can take a meaningful role as the lead or one of the lead investors
models.
Such growth companies belong to the industry sector of Digital technology, including, but not
limited to, Retail Tech including Food Tech, Fin- & InsurTech and Industrial & Mobility Tech
including LogTech and Mobility; Furthermore, the Partnership will pursue overarching cross
industry opportunities in the field of Enterprise Productivity and Supply Chain; focus
technologies within these industries and functions will be IoT / Connected Devices, AI / Data
Analytics, Crypto / Blockchain, Robotics and Virtual Reality, and health.
With respect to investments in Portfolio Companies other than Portfolio Companies in which
an entity managed or advised by an affiliate of Earlybird directly or indirectly holds an
investment of any type, the minimum initial investment is Euro 10 million by the Partnership
(which threshold can be reduced with the consent of the Limited Partner Advisory Committee;
with respect to any investment by the Partnership, the total maximum investment (initial
Page 2/5

investment plus follow-on investments) is 20% of the Total Capital Commitments to the
Partnership in the aggregate per Portfolio Company (a greater allocation is possible with the
consent of the Limited Partner Advisory Committee). The Partnership shall be permitted to
make investments representing a minority or majority interest in the equity capital of a Portfolio
Company.
The regional focus of the Partnership is on growth companies which have at the time of the
Partnership's initial investment their statutory seat or center of business activities in Europe
which in the reasonable assessment of Earlybird have the potential to develop a significant
business exposure to the global/international markets.
Furthermore, Earlybird applies the investment restrictions outlined above.
As part of the due diligence and ongoing investment management, the investment team will
review whether a potential portfolio company has good governance practices in place.
Proportion of Investments
Earlybird Growth Opportunities V will only make investments aligned with the promoted
environmental or social characteristics. Earlybird Growth Opportunities V will not invest a
portion of its capital in any other asset class.
Monitoring of Environmental or Social Characteristics
The investment team for Earlybird Growth Opportunities V will initially and continuously
monitor whether the investment restrictions are abided by and whether the investment falls
within the investment policies. Earlybird Growth Opportunities V will not make any investment
in the excluded sectors unless previously approved by the advisory committee. Therefore, the
achievement of the promoted environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) aspects – no
investment within the excluded sectors – can be tracked in a simple way.
Methodologies for Environmental or Social Characteristics
Earlybird Growth Opportunities V considers ESG aspects in different stages of the investment
process.
●

Screening

ESG issues are an integral part of Earlybird Growth Opportunities V’s screening process.
Earlybird Growth Opportunities V raises awareness amongst the investment team to keep
ESG issues in mind and raise red flags early in the investment process.
●

Investment Criteria: ESG Questionnaire

Page 3/5

During the Due Diligence process, the investment team members fill out the ESG
Questionnaire. The goal of the questionnaire is to confirm that either there are no ESG risk
issues, or that they can be sufficiently mitigated. Moreover, the questionnaire is used to assess
the status regarding ESG and impact of the company and identify focus areas of improvement
to be tackled after investment.
●

Investment Agreement

Earlybird Growth Opportunities V includes a sustainability clause in all new investment
agreements. The company commits to implement a climate and ESG policy within three
months of closing and a diversity strategy within six months of closing. The policy entails
appropriate measures and actions to implement and track the progress of the ESG policy which
will be reviewed and monitored by the board of directors on a regular basis.
●

Active Ownership

The board of directors is ultimately responsible for developing the portfolio company’s
sustainability strategy and linking evidence of improved ESG performance to the company’s
value.
Data Sources and Processing
Earlybird Growth Opportunities V receives data provided by the portfolio companies as part of
the due diligence process and at regular intervals after the investment. Where necessary or
beneficial, Earlybird Growth Opportunities V also makes use of publicly available data. Data
processing is exclusively internal and DSGVO compliant. Estimates of data are not made.
Limitations to Methodologies and Data
Earlybird Growth Opportunities V is partly reliant on the information provided by the potential
portfolio companies during the due diligence process. Moreover, in the post-investment phase,
Earlybird Growth Opportunities V is reliant on the company’s reported data. In both cases,
complete data may not always be available due to the nature of investments. information is
verified only where misrepresentations are suspected.
Due Diligence
For the ESG assessment process as described above, Earlybird Growth Opportunities V is
partly reliant on the information collected via the ESG Questionnaires as part of the due
diligence and thereby follows industry standard procedures to complete the ESG
Questionnaires. Where necessary, Earlybird Growth Opportunities V will engage with external
(data-) providers to develop a coherent ESG due diligence in case further information is
necessary to validate the investment. The due diligence process is not externally monitored.
Page 4/5

Engagement Policies
As the investments of Earlybird Growth Opportunities V are made for several years, Earlybird
considers it a priority to establish and maintain a trustful relationship with its portfolio
companies. Earlybird Growth Opportunities V wants to generate a positive impact beyond its
portfolio companies and share learnings and scientific insights, cooperating with other venture
capital firms as well as public institutions and foundations to advance the whole ecosystem.
Yet, if Earlybird Growth Opportunities V identifies deviations from its environmental or social
investment strategy, including breaches of sustainability-related management procedures in
portfolio companies, Earlybird envisages engaging with the respective portfolio company in
order to implement mitigation measures. As a venture capital investor, the influence Earlybird
Growth Opportunities V has on its portfolio companies through its shareholdings, however, is
limited but dialogue is sought with all stakeholders on a continuous basis.

Revised on 1st of July 2025 to incorporate regulatory updates resulting from the full BaFin
license granted to Earlybird GmbH & Co. KG.

Page 5/5

