EARLYBIRD VISION LAB
Sustainability-related disclosures

SUSTAINABILITY-RELATED DISCLOSURES
Ar#cle 10 SFDR – Sustainability-Related Informa#on About Financial Products That Promote
Environmental or Social Characteris#cs
Earlybird VC Management GmbH & Co. KG (“Earlybird VC”), LEI: 391200I4BXYVYHZO5X71, is
the alternative investment fund manager of Earlybird Vision Lab GmbH & Co. KG (“Earlybird
Vision Lab”), within the meaning of the German Investment Code (Kapitalanlagegesetzbuch) and
as such publishes the following information in light of the consideration of sustainability-related
aspects in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 27 November 2019 on sustainability disclosure requirements in the financial services
sector (“SFDR”).

SUMMARY
This financial product promotes environmental or social characteristics but does not have as its
objective a sustainable investment within the meaning of Article 2 No. 17 SFDR. The promoted
characteristics are the support of founders with a migration background and investment
restrictions. 100% of the investments will be in line with its investment strategy and investment
restrictions.
No reference benchmark has been designated to attain the environmental or social characteristics
promoted by the financial product.
Zusammenfassung
Dieses Finanzprodukt bewirbt ökologische oder soziale Merkmale, strebt aber keine nachhaltigen
Investitionen im Sinne der Definition des Artikel 2 Nr. 17 SFDR an. Bei den beworbenen Merkmalen
handelt es sich um die Förderung von Gründer:innen mit Migrationshintergrund sowie
Ausschlusskriterien. 100 % der Investitionen werden im Einklang mit der Anlagestrategie und den
Anlagebeschränkungen getätigt.
Es wurde kein Referenzwert benannt, um die mit dem Finanzprodukt beworbenen ökologischen
oder sozialen Merkmale zu erreichen.

NO SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE
This financial product promotes environmental or social characteristics, but does not have as its
objective sustainable investment.

2

ENVIRONMENTAL OR SOCIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF THE FINANCIAL PRODUCT
Purpose of Earlybird Vision Lab:
Earlybird Vision Lab will only invest in companies with a founding team consisting of at least one
founder with a migrant background in Germany as well as fund entrepreneurs with a migrant
background at pre-founding company stage with a right to convert such funding into equity and
equity-related investments once a company is founded. In addition to funding, Earlybird Vision Lab
shall provide non- monetary support to entrepreneurs with a migrant background in mentoring
sessions, expert workshops and networking events (such as non-monetary support, alone or
together with the financial support).
Industry-Specific Investment Restrictions:
Earlybird Vision Lab shall not invest in portfolio companies that engage in, or that directly or
indirectly control another entity whose business activity is any one or more of the following:

●

arms industry and arms trading;

●

gambling industry;

●

tobacco industry;

●

human cloning; or

●

GMOs (i.e., gene:cally modiﬁed organisms) trading or research and development rela:ng
to GMOs.

INVESTMENT STRATEGY
The purpose of Earlybird Vision Lab is to build, hold and manage in its own name and for its own
account a portfolio of equity and equity-related investments in pre-seed tech companies with a
founding team consisting of at least one founder with a migrant background in Germany as well as
to fund entrepreneurs with a migrant background at pre-founding company stage with a right to
convert such funding into equity and equity-related in-vestments once a company is founded. In
addition to funding, Earlybird Vision Lab shall provide non-monetary support to entrepreneurs
with a migrant background in mentoring sessions, expert workshops and networking events (such
as non-monetary support, alone or together with the financial support).
Furthermore, Earlybird VC applies the investment restrictions outlined above.
As part of the ongoing investment management, the investment team will review whether a
potential portfolio company has good governance practices in place.

PROPORTION OF INVESTMENTS
Earlybird Vision Lab will only make investments aligned with the promoted environmental or social
characteristics. Earlybird Vision Lab will not invest a portion of its capital in any other asset class.

3

Monitoring of Environmental or Social Characteris#cs
The investment team for Earlybird Vision Lab will initially and continuously monitor whether the
investment restrictions are abided by and whether the investment falls within the investment
policies. Earlybird Vision Lab will not make any investment in the excluded sectors unless
previously approved by the advisory committee. Therefore, the achievement of the promoted
environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) aspects – no investment within the excluded
sectors – can be tracked in a simple way.

METHODOLOGIES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL OR SOCIAL CHARACTERISTICS
Earlybird Vision Lab considers the ESG aspects set out above when choosing the participating
founders of the Earlybird Vision Lab incubator program. Due to the limited scope of the Earlybird
Vision Lab incubator program and the fund, the decision for participating founders is based on their
pitch decks and interviews with the founders. There is no structured due diligence process as
known from customary blind-pool venture capital funds.

DATA SOURCES AND PROCESSING
Earlybird Vision Lab receives data provided by the portfolio companies as part of the due diligence
process and at regular intervals after the investment. Where necessary or beneficial, Earlybird
Vision Lab also makes use of publicly available data. Data processing is exclusively internal and
DSGVO compliant. Estimates of data are not made.

LIMITATIONS TO METHODOLOGIES AND DATA
Earlybird Vision Lab is partly reliant on the information provided by the participating founder teams
(and, if applicable, by the incubated company) during the due diligence process. Moreover, in the
post-investment phase, Earlybird Vision Lab is reliant on the company’s reported data. In both
cases, complete data may not always be available due to the nature of investments. The
information is verified only if and to the extent, misrepresentations are suspected. As the fund’s
investment is made for several years, Earlybird Vision Lab considers it a priority to establish and
maintain a trustful working relationship with the fund’s portfolio companies to ensure compliance
with the restrictions described in this section.

DUE DILIGENCE
Due to the limited scope of the Earlybird Vision Lab incubator program and the fund, the decision
for participating founders is based on their pitch decks and interviews with the founders. There is
no structured due diligence process as known from customary blind-pool venture capital funds.

4

ENGAGEMENT POLICIES
As the active involvement of Earlybird Vision Lab ends after the Earlybird Vision Lab incubator
program, there are no engagement policies for the remaining time the fund is invested in a
company set up by the founding teams.

Updated 30 January 2025 to reflect updated internal policies.

5

