Press Release
btov Partners, HV Holtzbrinck Ventures and HTGF invest in Real World Evidence
and Patient-Reported Outcomes: 5 million euros for heartbeat medical
•
•
•

New standards for care management are set by connecting and utilising clinical data alongside
data tracking patient-provided perspectives on their health status over time
Fundamental trend in health care: Patient-Reported Outcome Measures (PROMS) and Real
World Evidence (RWE)
Over 200 hospital teams, registries and research institutions have registered to use the
platform registered as a CE-marked medical device

Berlin, 05 October 2020. The digital health start-up heartbeat medical has closed a Series A
financing round with a volume of 5 million euros. The funds will be used to support organisational
development and the expansion of capabilities of skills in the field of data analysis.
There is a great need for better data in quality assurance, measurement of treatment outcomes
and medical research. This is where heartbeat medical steps in with its novel digital solutions.
With its software, the start-up makes it possible for longitudinal patient-reported data to play an
important role in their care management.
For the first time, Patient-Reported Outcome Measures (PROMs) are systematically linked to
clinical data to improve treatment and research. In this way, clinical and scientific knowledge can
be gained from routine clinical data (Real World Evidence, RWE). Scientifically well-founded and
developed together with medical staff, heartbeat medical enables numerous medical departments
to better manage care as well as to evaluate products and therapies using Real World Evidence.
The financing round is led by new investor btov Partners and existing investor HV Holtzbrinck
Ventures. In addition, High-Tech Gründerfonds (HTGF) is increasing its holdings. After successful
establishment in the German market and several years of proof of feasibility in regular clinical
operation, heartbeat medical is aiming to expand the market leadership of its platform, classified as
a medical device, in care management through PROMs.
In addition, the investment is to be used to further develop the current range of services. At present,
more than 200 departments, registries and research projects are already under contract, which has
enabled more than 150,000 patients to receive comprehensive support in their treatment. While
these patients particularly benefit from the intuitive and personalised user interface, the medical
staff is supported by a high degree of automation and intuitive data presentation.
“The health care system is experiencing a fundamental change in terms of how we understand
the success of treatment,“ says Yannik Schreckenberger, managing director of heartbeat medical.
“The improvements in the quality of life actually felt by patients through conservative, surgical and
drug treatments are becoming comparable to purely clinical data as a basis for decision-making.
Reliably collected, representative and high-quality health data are the basis for subsequent
innovations and improvements.“
Jan-Hendrik Bürk, Principal at btov, says: “With its data-driven approach, heartbeat has the best
chance of becoming a central provider for improvements in clinical treatments and processes
as well as drug development. In doing so, heartbeat medical benefits from global regulatory
developments that accelerate patient-centered healthcare.“

About heartbeat medical:
heartbeat medical is a leader in the collection and analysis of Patient-Reported Outcome Data (PROMs) and their linkage
to clinical observations and embedding in treatments. Founded in 2014, the 40-strong team works from Berlin, Cologne
and London on product development and support for over 200 hospital departments, registries and research projects. The
Patient Reported Outcomes data are collected directly from patients in the form of standardised questionnaires and offer
insights into the individually perceived treatment effects. Automatically linked to clinical data, a data-based foundation for
decisions on medical and economic issues is thus created. heartbeat medical‘s platform, which is approved as a medical
device, is already being used in a variety of ways for therapies and research as well as for the evaluation of medical
components in regulatory procedures.
Further information is available at www.heartbeat-med.com/en
About btov Partners:
btov Partners, founded in 2000, is a European venture capital firm founded and financed by serial entrepreneurs and
business angels, focusing on digital and industrial technology companies. btov manages its own institutional funds, partner
funds and provides access to direct investment for private investors and family offices, with some of Europe‘s best-known
investors as its advisors and co-investors. The company, with offices in Berlin, Munich, St. Gallen and Luxembourg,
manages assets of €420 million in its three business divisions and screens over 3,000 investment opportunities annually.
The most renowned investments include Data Artisans, Blacklane, DeepL, Facebook, Foodspring, ORCAM, Raisin,
SumUp, Volocopter and XING.
Further information is available at www.btov.vc
About HV Holtzbrinck Ventures:
HV Holtzbrinck Ventures has invested in internet and technology companies since 2000. HV is one of the most successful
and financially strongest early-stage and growth investors in Europe. More than € 1 billion have been raised in multiple
generations of funds. HV has invested in more than 185 companies, including Zalando, Delivery Hero, FlixMobility, SumUp
and Scalable Capital. HV supports start-ups with capital between € 500,000 and € 50 million. This makes HV one of the few
venture capitalists in Europe that can finance start-ups through all growth phases.
Further information is available www.hvventures.com
About High-Tech Gründerfonds:
The seed investor High-Tech Gründerfonds (HTGF) finances technology start-ups with high potential for growth. With a
volume of around 900 million euros spread over three funds and an international partner network, the HTGF has supported
almost 600 start-ups since 2005. Its team of experienced investment managers and start-up experts supports the young
companies with know-how, entrepreneurial spirit and passion. The focus is on high-tech start-ups in the fields of digital
tech, industrial tech, life sciences, chemistry and related business areas. To date, external investors have invested more
than 2.6 billion euros in the HTGF portfolio in more than 1,600 follow-up financing rounds. The fund has also successfully
sold shares in more than 100 companies.
Investors in the public-private partnership include the Federal Ministry of Economics and Energy, KfW Capital, the
Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft and 32 companies. Our investors: www.htgf.de/en/about-us/fund-investors
Further information is available at www.htgf.de/en

Press contacts:
Moritz Neubauer
heartbeat medical
Phone: +49 178 5208 707
E-Mail: presse@heartbeat-med.de
Virgile Dutrannoy
btov Partners GmbH
Phone: +49 30 346 558 423
E-Mail: virgile.dutrannoy@btov.vc

Felix Klühr
HV Holtzbrinck Ventures
E-Mail: felix.kluehr@hvventures.com
Dr. Fabian Mohr
High-Tech Gründerfonds Management GmbH
Phone: +49 228 82300 181
E-Mail: f.mohr@htgf.de

