[ 01 ] Investing at the cutting edge of innovation, worldwide – ten
years of Bosch venture capital
[ 02 ] Robert Bosch Venture Capital GmbH (RBVC)
[ 03 ] Dr. Volkmar Denner
[ 04 ] Dr. Ingo Ramesohl
[ 05 ] Philipp Rose

Robert Bosch GmbH
Postfach 10 60 50
70049 Stuttgart

Media und Public Relations
Leitung: Melita Delic
Presse-Forum:
www.bosch-presse.de

Press release

Investing at the cutting edge of innovation,
worldwide – ten years of Bosch venture capital
Successful international portfolio; on course for further
growth
 Bosch CEO Denner: “Robert Bosch Venture Capital makes an important
contribution to the Bosch culture of innovation, and thus its agility.”
 Local presence: new office in Shanghai, China
 Promising investments: automated driving and systems based on artificial
intelligence (AI)
 Open innovation: speedier identification of new trends
 Successful exits: Movidius, GreenPeak

Stuttgart and Ludwigsburg, Germany – Ten years of investment, ten years of
innovation: over the past decade, Robert Bosch Venture Capital GmbH (RBVC)
has made a string of successful investments in tech start-ups. The venture capital
wing of the Bosch Group invests up to 15 million euros in individual young startups, and also provides them with the know-how and contacts it has as a leading
global supplier of technology and services. Apart from looking for a healthy return
on the capital it invests, RBVC is also eager to help young companies develop
new technologies. Here, the investment strategy focuses on complementary
technologies or on business models that fit particularly well with the Bosch Group
portfolio. “RBVC has successfully established itself alongside major institutional
venture capital companies. Our VC wing provides us with valuable contacts to the
start-up scene, and thereby makes a significant contribution to the Bosch culture
of innovation, and thus its agility,” says Dr. Volkmar Denner, chairman of the
board of management of Robert Bosch GmbH. The RBVC portfolio comprises
over 35 pioneering technology start-ups from around the world. This international
focus offers a clear strategic advantage in the field of disruptive innovations.
“RBVC will continue to expand its portfolio of innovative start-ups, and thus ensure
its success story continues,” Denner says. “Among its most promising investments
are projects that will advance the development of automated driving and AI-based
systems.” The Bosch venture capital subsidiary manages a total fund volume of
over 300 million euros.
Robert Bosch GmbH

E-mail

P.O. Box 10 60 50
Phone
70049 Stuttgart, Germany Twitter

Aron.Bahnmueller@bosch.com

Corporate Communications

+49 711 811-47950
@BoschPresse

and Brand Management
Senior Vice President: Dr. Christoph Zemelka
www.bosch-presse.de

June 28, 2018
PI 10657 RBVC/Ba

Presence in China boosts business
In view of the big long-term opportunities it sees in the Chinese market, RBVC has
opened a new office there. “Our Shanghai office reinforces our presence in one of
the world’s most dynamic markets,” says Dr. Ingo Ramesohl, one of RBVC’s
managing directors. “Tech start-ups with interesting products and services are
now emerging in China on an almost daily basis. Having a local presence will
enable us to take on an even more active role in the country’s start-up scene.” The
goal is to build on the company’s success in China and establish it in the local
market as a leading investor in tech ventures. In particular, RBVC will be focusing
on start-ups operating in the fields of artificial intelligence (AI), the internet of
things (IoT), automated driving, augmented and virtual reality (AR/VR), and
blockchain technology. From its base in Germany, RBVC has already been active
in the Chinese market. To date, it has made a total of five investments there.
Thanks to the organizational structure behind it, RBVC is one of the few nonChinese investors in a position to make investments in renminbi, the local Chinese
currency. The VC wing of Bosch operates out of five locations worldwide. The
ability to engage in major technology hot spots, particularly Silicon Valley and
Israel, will be crucial to the company’s long-term success.
Open innovation: speedier identification of new trends
Each year, experts from RBVC examine the new technologies and business
models of over 2,000 start-ups from around the world. Only around a hundred of
these make it to the shortlist. “We invest in six to ten carefully selected companies
each year,” says the RBVC managing director Philipp Rose. “This strict process of
selection is in line with our strategy of focusing – like an institutional VC company
– on only the most promising investments. But even dealing with the start-ups we
ultimately don’t select is interesting for us, because it helps widen the potential for
innovation at Bosch.” RBVC regularly creates contacts between young companies
and Bosch operating units. As a result, these start-ups may ultimately become a
supplier, technology partner, or even customer of Bosch. This “open innovation”
approach selectively involves external partners in a company’s own innovation
process. It means that each party can benefit from the other’s experience and
know-how. This business model, in which RBVC provides more than just venture
capital, produces numerous win-win situations. “In addition to capital, we also offer
know-how and operational support, which gets us directly involved in the start-up
scene,” Rose says. “As a result, we get to identify new trends and opportunities a
lot earlier than technology companies that aren’t involved in open innovation.”

Page 2 of 4

Long-term investment
“We are a tech investor and, as such, we often discuss highly complex
technologies with start-ups,” Ramesohl says. “We are also prepared to take on the
financial risk of investing in such technologies.” A look at the success of the past
ten years confirms this. The current portfolio comprises thriving companies
operating in areas such as blockchain technology, IoT, machine learning, and
semiconductor development. Examples here include the British processor
company Graphcore, which produces AI components designed to accelerate
machine learning, and the Berlin start-up IOTA, which is developing a
cryptocurrency for payments on the internet of things – for example, at charge
spots for electric vehicles. Both these business models complement the portfolio
of the Bosch Group, and both exemplify the long-term orientation of RBVC’s
investment strategy. The past ten years have also brought a number of successful
exits. These include Movidius, a manufacturer of image processors, which was
taken over by Intel, and GreenPeak, a developer of hardware and applications for
wireless systems, which was acquired by the semiconductor producer Qorvo.
Press photos: #1089507, #1371386, #1371387, #1371828, #1371830
Contact persons for press inquiries:
Nicole Neuer,
Phone: +49 711 811-11390
Twitter: @nicoleneuer
Aron Bahnmüller,
Phone: +49 711 811-47950
Twitter: @Abahnmuller
Robert Bosch Venture Capital GmbH (RBVC) is the corporate venture capital company of the
Bosch Group, a leading global supplier of technology and services. RBVC invests worldwide in
innovative start-up companies at all stages of their development. Its investment activities focus
on technology companies working in areas of business of current and future relevance for
Bosch, above all, automation and electrification, energy efficiency, enabling technologies, and
healthcare systems. RBVC also invests in services and business models as well as new
materials that are relevant to the above-mentioned areas of business.
The Bosch Group is a leading global supplier of technology and services. It employs roughly
402,000 associates worldwide (as of December 31, 2017). The company generated sales of
78.1 billion euros in 2017. Its operations are divided into four business sectors: Mobility
Solutions, Industrial Technology, Consumer Goods, and Energy and Building Technology. As a
leading IoT company, Bosch offers innovative solutions for smart homes, smart cities,
connected mobility, and connected manufacturing. It uses its expertise in sensor technology,
software, and services, as well as its own IoT cloud, to offer its customers connected, crossdomain solutions from a single source. The Bosch Group’s strategic objective is to deliver
innovations for a connected life. Bosch improves quality of life worldwide with products and
services that are innovative and spark enthusiasm. In short, Bosch creates technology that is
“Invented for life.” The Bosch Group comprises Robert Bosch GmbH and its roughly 440
subsidiary and regional companies in 60 countries. Including sales and service partners,
Bosch’s global manufacturing, engineering, and sales network covers nearly every country in
the world. The basis for the company’s future growth is its innovative strength. At 125 locations
across the globe, Bosch employs some 64,500 associates in research and development.
Page 3 of 4

The company was set up in Stuttgart in 1886 by Robert Bosch (1861-1942) as “Workshop for
Precision Mechanics and Electrical Engineering.” The special ownership structure of Robert
Bosch GmbH guarantees the entrepreneurial freedom of the Bosch Group, making it possible
for the company to plan over the long term and to undertake significant upfront investments in
the safeguarding of its future. Ninety-two percent of the share capital of Robert Bosch GmbH is
held by Robert Bosch Stiftung GmbH, a charitable foundation. The majority of voting rights are
held by Robert Bosch Industrietreuhand KG, an industrial trust. The entrepreneurial ownership
functions are carried out by the trust. The remaining shares are held by the Bosch family and by
Robert Bosch GmbH.
Additional information is available online at www.bosch.com, www.iot.bosch.com, www.boschpress.com, www.twitter.com/BoschPresse.

Page 4 of 4

Factsheet

Robert Bosch Venture Capital GmbH (RBVC)
Investments in tech start-ups
 Headquarters

Robert-Bosch-Platz 1
70839 Gerlingen, Germany

 Locations

Stuttgart office (DE)
Frankfurt am Main office (DE)
Tel Aviv office (IL)
Sunnyvale affiliate office (USA)
Shanghai affiliate office (CN)

 Associates

Approximately 30 worldwide

 Management

Dr. Ingo Ramesohl, managing director
Philipp Rose, managing director

 Company

RBVC is the venture capital wing of the Bosch Group. As a
tech investor, RBVC scours the globe for innovative startup companies that are potential game-changers for entire
industries. These companies can be at any stage of
development. Its investment activities focus on technology
companies working in areas that are relevant to Bosch,
both now and in the future. RBVC also invests in selected
independent venture capital funds that focus on a particular
region or sector.

 Fund volume

Current third fund: 150 million euros; former funds: 120 and
150 million euros (total investment per company in portfolio
is generally between 5 and 15 million euros, in return for a
holding of between 10 and 25 percent of equity).

 Holdings

RBVC currently holds equity in over 35 companies
worldwide.

 Network

RBVC also works with other venture capital funds, startups, and companies, as well as a network of universities
and start-up accelerators, in order to identify new
investment opportunities.

Robert Bosch GmbH

E-mail

Aron.Bahnmueller@de.bosch.com

Corporate Communications

P.O. Box 10 60 50
70049 Stuttgart,
Germany

Phone
Twitter

+49 711 811-47950
@BoschPresse

and Brand Management
Senior Vice President: Dr. Christoph Zemelka
www.bosch-presse.de

June 28, 2018
PI 10658 RBVC/Ba

Investment strategy
 Investment focus ► Automation and electrification
► Mobility solutions
► Healthcare
► Energy efficiency
► Artificial intelligence (AI) and deep learning
► Internet of things (IoT)
► Analytics
► Disruptive computer architectures (hardware and
software)
► Augmented and virtual reality (AR and VR)
► Blockchain and other distributed ledger technologies
 Active investor

RBVC acts as an institutional venture capital company in
the international venture capital and investment market.
RBVC uses its network within Bosch and beyond in order
to help start-ups establish and scale new business models,
and to help them ramp up industrial production.

Procedure
 Investments

► Initial finance (series A/B): 3–5 million euros
► Further finance up to a total investment of 15 million
euros
► Selective injection of seed capital up to 0.5 million euros
► Selective investment in other venture capital funds in
order to build up international and industrial networks

 Investment types ► Equity investments in any currency
► Investments in China in local currency (renminbi)
► Bridge financing and SAFE notes
► Token/cryptocurrency investments

Page 2 of 3

Extract from the portfolio of companies
 AImotive (HU)

developing a new type of computer-vision system for
autonomous and semi-autonomous vehicles. This
technology is based primarily on the analysis of camera
images – but also radar and lidar signals – by means of AI
processes. In addition to software, the company also
supplies embedded hardware solutions and a simulation
and verification package.

 Graphcore (UK)

developing a new type of processor known as the IPU
(intelligent processing unit). Equipped with a completely
new processor architecture, IPUs are specifically designed
for the workloads of machine learning and artificial
intelligence. IPUs can significantly accelerate AI
applications in the cloud or data center.

 IOTA (DE)

developed the cryptocurrency IOTA on the basis of the
Tangle protocol, which is related to blockchain technology.
Its main area of use is for settling small due amounts in an
M2M (machine-to-machine) environment – for, example,
payments at a charge spot for electric vehicles.

 Poka (CAN)

developing a cloud solution for knowledge sharing and
personnel training at industrial companies. This solution is
comparable to a YouTube portal for manufacturers. It helps
them respond to the demand for a flexible and highly
qualified workforce capable of operating increasingly
complex and increasingly automated production lines.

 Prophesee (FR)

developed one of the most advanced neuromorphic vision
systems for machines, robots, and driverless cars. This
solution is based on neural networks and uses extremely
fast image sensors.

 Sensoro (CN)

produces beacons and wireless sensors for industrial
applications. Its wireless sensor networks are used to
provide environment data for IoT applications. They are
both simple to operate and easy to monitor. Sensoro has
already networked large cities and whole regions in China.

Page 3 of 3

Curriculum vitae

Dr. Volkmar Denner
Chairman of the Board of Management,
Robert Bosch GmbH
Volkmar Denner has been chairman of the board of management of Robert
Bosch GmbH and a limited partner of Robert Bosch Industrietreuhand KG
since July 1, 2012. His responsibilities include corporate strategy, corporate
communications and governmental affairs, and real estate and facilities. He is
also responsible for the Bosch Healthcare Solutions GmbH subsidiary.
Born in Uhingen, Germany, on November 30, 1956, Volkmar Denner is married
and has three children. After taking his university entrance examination in 1975,
he studied physics at the University of Stuttgart, taking his diploma examination
in 1981. After a research stay in the United States, he was awarded a doctorate in
physics (Dr. rer. nat.) by the University of Stuttgart in 1985.
He is a member of the managing board of the VDA (German Association of
the Automotive Industry) and of the BBUG (Baden-Baden Entrepreneurs’
Conference), as well as chairman of the Vereinigung von Freunden der
Universität Stuttgart (Society of Friends of the University of Stuttgart).
Career stages in the Bosch Group
1986

Senior expert for power semiconductor development,
Semiconductors and Electronic Control Units division

1989

Department head in power semiconductor technology
development

1991

Department head in integrated circuit development

1994

Head of sales, ECU development, and systems application,
Gasoline Engine Management division

1998

Director of engine ECU development

2000

Head of ECU development and product manager for ECUs
Executive vice-president sales and development,
Semiconductors and Electronic Control Units division

2003

President,
Automotive Electronics division

January 1, 2019
RB Zi

2006

Member of the board of management,
Robert Bosch GmbH

July 2012

Chairman of the board of management
of Robert Bosch GmbH

Page 2 of 2

Curriculum vitae

Dr. Ingo Ramesohl
Managing director, Robert Bosch Venture Capital GmbH
Dr. Ingo Ramesohl has been the managing director of Robert Bosch Venture
Capital GmbH (RBVC) since July 1, 2015. His areas of responsibility include
technology strategies and decision-making at RBVC. In addition, he is in charge of
liaising with the Bosch divisions. Ramesohl joined RBVC in early 2015, after
holding various positions at Bosch in Germany, South Korea, and China over the
course of 16 years. He has accumulated years of experience in various domains,
including automotive electronics, development, quality assurance, accounting, and
corporate planning. Ramesohl earned his doctorate in electrical engineering at
RWTH Aachen University.

Career stages in the Bosch Group
July 2015

Managing director, Robert Bosch Venture Capital GmbH,
Stuttgart

2012

Head of the electric vehicle and hybrid systems business unit,
Ludwigsburg

2010

General manager, UAES, electric vehicle and hybrid
technology, Shanghai, China

2007

Director, office of the chairman of the board of management
and CEO, Corporate Affairs Planning, Gerlingen

2003

Head of engineering, Daejon, South Korea

1999

Section head, small engines development, Bühl

June 28, 2018
PI 10659 RBVC/Ba

Curriculum vitae

Philipp Rose
Managing director, Robert Bosch Venture Capital GmbH
Philipp Rose has been managing director at Robert Bosch Venture Capital GmbH
(RBVC) since July 1, 2014. He is responsible for all commercial aspects of
company business and is also one of the investment partners at RBVC. His
principal areas of responsibility are portfolio management and fund management,
financial, legal, and tax issues, and liaison with the Bosch Group. Before joining
RBVC in 2014, he occupied a range of positions within the Bosch Group. Rose
joined Bosch in 2003, after gaining many years of experience in M&A at Credit
Suisse and J.P. Morgan. He has a degree in business administration from the
University of Regensburg, Germany.

Career stages in the Bosch Group
July 2014

Managing director, Robert Bosch Venture Capital GmbH,
Stuttgart, Germany

2011

Managing director, ETAS GmbH, Stuttgart, Germany

2007

Head of commercial affairs, Pacifica Group Ltd., Melbourne,
Australia

2003

Senior consultant, corporate M&A, Stuttgart, Germany

June 28, 2018
PI 10672 RBVC/Ba

