Manifesto in Defense of the Lives of Guardians of the
World's Food Cultures
IACITATA AMAZÔNIA VIVA
Food on the planet is collapsing! Guardians of food cultures, who ensure that ecosystems
remain alive and that food reaches the populations of the fields, waters, backlands, forests,
and cities, are threatened and assassinated at the same speed as the aggression against their
territories by those who cause mass destruction.
From our knowledge, remedies and delights are born; from our memories, the fight against
hunger and in defense of food sovereignty is raised; from our actions: technologies,
innovations, and confluences. For the city to eat, the field needs to plant, the forest needs to
harvest, the water needs to be clean for the fish to be born. Indigenous peoples and local
communities safeguard more than 80% of the planet's biodiversity. Without guardians, there
are no seeds, no cures, no springs. Food sovereignty only exists with living cultures! It is
urgent to defend those who defend food cultures!
Between armed conflicts, the financialization of nature, and the devastation of biomes, we are
on the verge of mass extinction, with the loss of at least 25% of edible species and an
increase of over 50% in assassinations of socio-environmental and traditional leaders in 2024.
Cultural diversity and biological diversity are inseparable! The extermination of food culture
is a harbinger of the death of a people. Neither the Amazon nor the world is fed by the
commodities that ensure the world record for pesticide consumption, concentration of land
and income, acidification of waters, and increase in ocean temperatures, alarming rates of
slave labor and human trafficking, biopiracy, precariousness of education and basic services,
gentrification, deterritorialization, and the overwhelming racism and colonialism against the
original food that the global north imposes on the non-white peoples of the world, mainly in
Abya Yala (Latin America) and Africa.
Whoever stands up in defense of life is a target. The aim is certain: we, the indigenous,
traditional, popular, and peripheral cultures, the same ones that safeguard the cultural and
genetic heritage. For the heritage to exist, the people must be alive to practice their culture!
And we, guardians of the world's food cultures, who raise the sky, listen to the breath of
nature and plant, cultivate, manage, harvest, fish, create, and cook without pesticides, without
transgenics, without agro-hydro-business, without annihilation of nature and cultures, and we
denounce the violations of human rights, injustices, and environmental crimes, are being
killed. It is urgent to understand: every fallen leader is less food on the table!
We live in a society that produces seeds that do not sprout, that criminalizes healthy artisanal
foods, that relaxes laws on pesticides and transgenics, that causes contamination of breast
milk, that made plastic cross the placenta, that transformed a child into an enemy, that kills
those who feed!

We are not a threat! We are guardians of food cultures; our food does not kill by disease or by
conflict. We are the living memory, the safeguard of traditional knowledge, we are
body-territories, we are seed-people. Our worldview illuminates, our ancestry makes us, our
spirituality guides, our hands feed and heal, our way of life regenerates the climate, our food
makes the sun rest!
Thus, in this framework of global destruction of ecosystems and rights, we call on everyone
to join the collective struggle and we demand from UNESCO, the United Nations, and
Member States:
•​ The creation of a Global program of recognition, protection, and support for the lives
of Guardians of the World's Food Cultures, with a budget and personnel structure for
execution and implementation;
•​ To recognize and adapt the use of the term 'food culture' in international agreements
and protocols in substitution of the use of the word 'gastronomy' as a synonym for
culture, since the use of the word 'gastronomy' as a synonym for culture implies
equating fast foods, ultra-processed foods, transgenic products, and other products of
the food and beverage industry and agribusiness with the productions of just,
culturally and socio-environmentally responsible food systems and artisanal
productions of indigenous peoples and traditional and peasant communities;
•​ To recognize and adapt the use of the term 'food culture' in international agreements
and protocols on Creative Economy in substitution of the use of the word
'gastronomy' as a synonym for culture;
•​ The creation of a program for the integral protection and maintenance of food cultures
and their just production systems with recognition of guardians and intergenerational
continuous practices;
•​ The recognition of traditional food cultural practices as cultural expressions to be
included in programs for the safeguarding of traditional knowledge and
benefit-sharing;
•​ The recognition of food culture as a solution to the climate, environmental, and food
crisis;
•​ The recognition of guardians of the food cultures of the waters as inseparable from the
survival of mangroves, basins, rivers, and oceans;
•​ Strengthening of the bioeconomy agenda proposed in the G20, with the guarantee of
inclusion with specific budgetary allocation for the support and practices of guardians
of food cultures;
•​ Immediate suspension of fossil fuel programs and strengthening of the just energy
transition;
•​ Recognition of cultural violations as a criminal offense;
•​ Unwavering defense of the self-determination of peoples and their territories and
non-negotiable guarantee of social participation in decision-making and negotiation
tables;
•​ Demarcation, guarantee, consolidation, and maintenance of indigenous territories and
of traditional peoples and communities and their 'maretórios' [sea territories]; in order
to reaffirm the rights and Buen Vivir (sumak kawsay, a Kichwa term) of these
populations over their territories and 'maretórios';
•​ Popular and agrarian reform;

•​ Creation of mechanisms for the socio-bioeconomy of Guardians;
•​ Recognition and inclusion of guardians with fair and equitable remuneration in public
and private institutions, formal and non-formal, of teaching, research, science, and
technology;
•​ Guarantee of the creation, implementation and execution, strengthening and
expansion of public policies for the promotion, innovation, and safeguarding of food
cultures and traditional knowledge associated with genetic heritage and for food
security and sovereignty and the fight against hunger, vulnerability, misery, and
poverty;
•​ Guarantee of the creation, implementation and execution, strengthening and
expansion of public policies to combat and prevent socio-environmental threats and
crimes, crimes against dignity and human and drug trafficking and trafficking of
species;
Patrimonializing is not enough! All non-white peoples of the planet are under threat! It is
urgent to guarantee the lives of Guardians of the world's food cultures!
We want our forests, seeds, peoples, youths, and children alive!
We want to live to hold up the sky!
We want to see the old sower birds land on the ancient trees and feed the fields, forests,
waters, and cities of hope, culture, and peace.
To defend who defends is now!
This manifesto is supported by the Amazon Investor Coalition.
Are you a guardian of food culture? Get in touch with us and send your experience to
manifestoculturaalimentar@gmail.com
Do you want to sign the manifesto? Send an email to manifestoculturaalimentar@gmail.com
Do you want to make a donation to support our actions?
•​
•​
•​
•​
•​

Pix CNPJ: 14.216.495/0001-03 Nubank
Bank: 260
Agency: 001
Current Account: 38511418-9
PayPal: iacitataamazonia@gmail.com

