Annual Report 2024

Adapting and
succeeding
together

Contents
From the Managing Director

3

Five-year Oikocredit key figures

4

Corporate governance

5

Managing Board report

9

Supervisory Board report

27

Members’ Council report

33

Consolidated financial statements

37

Notes to the consolidated financial statements

43

Society financial statements

89

Notes to the Society financial statements

93

Other information

101

Strategic partners and relevant networks

107

Contact information

108

About the cover picture:

Fapecafes
Apolo Espinoza is head of quality
control and chief coffee taster at
Fapecafes, Oikocredit’s smallholder
ecological coffee growers’ association
partner in southern Ecuador. He proudly
wears his cupping spoons in his apron
pocket.
The Regional Federation of Small
Ecological Coffee Growers’ Associations
of Southern Ecuador, Fapecafes,
represents approximately 1,800 smallscale coffee producers. Fapecafes
brings together six grassroots coffee
farmer organisations in the provinces
of El Oro, Loja and Zamora. It collects
members’ coffee harvest, processes
the coffee and exports it, especially
to Europe. Fapecafes coffee is 95%
certified organic; 5% has special
recognition as origin coffee that, while
not certified, is produced ecologically.

2

Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Fapecafes became an Oikocredit
partner in 2011. It values its relationship
with Oikocredit, based on mutual
trust. Fapecafes buys members’ coffee
between June and February, so access
to financing at the right times of year is
important. Member organisations pay
the farmers fair trade prices when they
deliver their harvest. Previously, when
there were no growers’ associations,
local intermediary buyers exploited
the farmers.
Most Fapecafes members grow food
crops for household consumption.
Many are experiencing the effects
of climate change, especially in the
Ecuadorean Amazon region. Fapecafe
members today work with others to halt
deforestation and plant coffee, cocoa,
and fruit and other trees on previously
cleared land. Their goal is to create
fully sustainable production using
only organic fertiliser so that the soils
remain productive.

From the
Managing Director
Oikocredit entered its 50th year in 2024. Almost five decades of pioneering and influential social impact investing
with a cooperative and participatory approach are no small achievement. Much has sustained us in our work
and continues to strengthen us now: being mission driven and committed to advancing human solidarity and
environmental sustainability; the satisfaction of effectively balancing risk, return and social impact; and seeing our
work grow, benefit partners and their clients, bring together members and investors, and help set and maintain
standards across our sector.
Standing still is never an option for our cooperative. This past year we saw continual change in the external
context of our work, both in the European countries where we raise most of our capital and in the lower-income
countries of Africa, Asia, and Latin America and the Caribbean where we invest. There was much to respond to.
Internally we continued to adjust to our renewed capital-raising model, held a mid-term review of our 20222026 strategy, and began an internal conversation about the meaning, opportunities and challenges of operating
as a cooperative.
Personal highlights for me in 2024 included the further successful development of our community-focused
portfolio with investments in education, housing, water and sanitation, renewable energy, and (most recently)
climate-smart agriculture, and with strong strategic partnerships. Another key achievement is our evolving
Client Self-Perception Survey and the way it increasingly informs the work of both our partners and ourselves.
Willingness as an organisation to evaluate our performance and seek to improve is a third source of satisfaction.
Not all has gone well for Oikocredit this year. The severe US dollar crisis in Bolivia has probably been the worst,
and least foreseen, occurrence influencing our results. And we have not yet achieved the anticipated turnaround
in capital raising, although we were able to finance and modestly grow the development financing portfolio.
Our current members and investors, and our partners and their clients, continue to motivate and inspire us.
For example, Apolo Espinoza, featured on this year’s cover page, is head of quality control and chief coffee
taster at Fapecafes, a federation of smallholder ecological coffee growers’ associations in southern Ecuador
and an Oikocredit partner since 2011. Fapecafes brings together six grassroots organisations and hundreds of
farmer members to gather, process and export high-quality organic fair trade coffee to Europe. In the face of
climate change, Fapecafe members work to halt deforestation, interplanting coffee with fruit and other trees,
and using only organic fertiliser.
As our latest 2024 Impact Report states, people and communities living on low incomes do little or nothing
to cause times of crisis yet experience crises most severely. In the face of today’s political, economic, social
and ecological instability, community-level resilience is essential if disadvantaged people are to maintain and
improve their lives and livelihoods.
Hence our increasing work with organisations that support lower-income communities in building resilience,
which complements our long-standing focus on financial inclusion, smallholder agriculture and renewable energy.
Once again, it is my pleasure and privilege to commend this Annual Report to you and to thank all who are
a part of, or work with, our cooperative as members, investors, donors, partners, support associations, staff,
volunteers and board members for another year of valuable effort and achievement. Long may our collective
efforts continue!

Mirjam ’t Lam
Managing Director

From the Managing Director

3

Five-year Oikocredit key figures
Figures from the consolidated financial statements as at 31 December
2024
Members
222
Investors (approximate number)
46,361
10
Outflow offices 1
5
Inflow offices 2
20
Support associations 2
n/a
National support offices and support associations 2
280
Staff members in full-time equivalents (FTE) 3
487
Partners in portfolio 4

2023
490
48,200
10
5
20
n/a
277
540

2022
528
56,300
13
3
22
26
250
519

2021
546
58,900
14
3
22
26
206
517

2020
552
58,400
14
3
22
26
192
563

Reference

€ millions
Total consolidated assets
Member and investor capital
Other funding 5
Total funds available for investing

1,147.0
967.0
107.7
1,074.7

1,156.9
1,000.8
104.0
1,104.8

1,252.5
1,110.7
100.5
1,211.2

1,258.1
1,129.0
88.0
1,217.0

1,241.7
1,104.1
109.3
1,213.4

Consolidated
balance sheet
Consolidated
balance sheet
Consolidated
balance sheet

474,7
-10.5%
6,330.9

530.5
29.9%
5,856.2

408.5
-13.8%
5,325.7

474.1
94.7%
4,917.2

243.5
-39.8%
4,443.1

6,048.8

5,516.1

5,030.1

4,572.4

4,168.7

1,105.3
100.0%
8.3%

1,084.7
89.6%
5.8%

1,007.2
82.8%
3.8%

995.9
82.1%
5.5%

845.1
66.5%
5.8%

64.6

69.5

96.7

109.9

6.0%

6.9%

9.7%

13.0%

20.7
2.2%

11.1
1.2%

28.2
3.3%

12.8
1.5%

12.9
1.9%

-

-

-

214.4

182.8

Consolidated
balance sheet

Total financial income 9

113.6

91.8

105.0

69.3

78.6

Consolidated
income statement

General and administrative expenses 10
As % of total assets

45.5
4.0%

44.6
3.9%

36.8
2.9%

29.5
2.3%

29.1
2.3%

Consolidated
income statement

Development financing activities
New disbursements
De/Increase in disbursements (%)
Cumulative disbursements
Total cumulative payments
(capital, interest and dividends) by partners 6
Total development financing outstanding
As % of total funds available for investing at 1 January
Portfolio at risk 90 days 7

Loan loss provisions on capital and interest
89.6
and impairment of equity 8
Loan loss provisions on capital and interest and impairment
8.1%
of equity as % of development financing outstanding
Write-offs of capital charged to loan loss provisions
As % of development financing outstanding loan portfolio
Term investments

Note 28

Note 9

Note 9

Notes 9 and 12

Note 9

General and administrative expenses
excluding grant-based expenses 11
As % of total assets

44.1

43.5

36.2

29.1

28.4

3.8%

3.8%

2.9%

2.3%

2.3%

Impairments and additions to loss provisions
As % of development financing outstanding

(47.9)
-4.3%

(10.8)
-1.1%

(11.6)
-1.2%

(1.8)
-0.2%

33.0
3.9%

Consolidated
income statement

Net income available for distribution 12
Dividend

(8.0)
0

1.2
5.3

6.8
5.6

15.3
5.6

(22.2)
0

Society
income statement
Other information

Countries with legal entities that no longer carry out operational activities are not included in this number.
As of 2023 we have split the inflow offices (formerly known as national support offices) figure and the support association figure.
Including staff employed by outflow offices and inflow offices.
4
Partners in portfolio includes development financing outstanding as well as partners currently in the process of disbursement. It excludes partner funding that has been repaid, written off or cancelled.
A partner is an organisation to which Oikocredit is extending a loan or in which Oikocredit has an equity investment.
5
Other funding is general reserves (2024: EUR 80.7 million) and non-current liabilities (2024: EUR 32.2 million) excluding hedge contracts and other liabilities (2024: EUR 9.2 million).
6
Total cumulative payments by partners comprises payments of capital, interest and dividends.
7
Portfolio at risk 90 days comprises all partners that are 90 days overdue or longer.
8
Loan loss provisions on capital and impairments on equity investments (2024: EUR 86.6 million) and loan loss provisions on interest (2024: EUR 3.0 million).
9
Consists of interest on the development financing portfolio (2024: EUR 94.7 million), arrangement and maintenance fees (2024 EUR 3.1 million) and income from equity investments (2024: EUR 15.8 million).
10
Including expenses covered by grants (for example capacity building expenses).
11
Excluding expenses covered by grants (for example capacity building expenses).
12
Please refer to the Society financial statements.
1

2
3

4

Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Corporate governance

Weziza Benin, an Oikocredit partner
since 2022, provides affordable and reliable
off-grid renewable electricity for lower-income
Beninese rural and peri-urban households and small
businesses. Part of the Energicity Group of companies,
Weziza won a Benin government competition to electrify
16 off-grid communities in three regions.
Weziza’s solar photovoltaic mini-grids enable clients to avoid expenditure
on diesel generators, batteries, paraffin and candles, expand their
productive activities, increase their incomes and reduce their CO2 emissions.
In the photograph a Weziza technician inspects solar panels in
Gounsoe village, Collines department, central Benin.

Corporate governance

5

Corporate governance
Introduction

Oikocredit is a cooperative under Dutch law. The ‘structure
regime’ under Dutch law has applied to Oikocredit since
August 2019. The Dutch Corporate Governance Code is not
applicable to the cooperative as its participations (investment
products) are not listed on a government-recognised stock
exchange (or any other exchange). However, certain best
practices from the code are reflected in the cooperative’s
Articles of Association and rules for both its Supervisory
Board and Managing Board as necessary.

Governance structure

In July 2022 Oikocredit adopted a new governance
structure, with a Managing Board consisting of four statutory
directors and an Executive Committee consisting of the
Managing Board members and four non-statutory directors
responsible for strategy implementation and the day-to-day
operation of Oikocredit. The structure is designed to support
implementation of the 2022-2026 strategy, to enhance
decision-making, efficiency and effectiveness, and to further
embed our focus on social impact.

Governance bodies at Oikocredit
Members OIKOCREDIT,
Ecumenical Development Cooperative Society U.A.

Members� Council

General Meeting
Supervisory Board
Managing Board
Executive Committee

General Meeting
The General Meeting is the highest governing body of The
General Meeting is the highest governing body of Oikocredit.
It is the sole body of the cooperative with the power (among
other powers) to alter the Articles of Association, appoint
members of the Supervisory Board upon nomination by the
Supervisory Board, adopt the annual accounts, allocate
profits and declare dividends, and discharge the Managing
Board and the Supervisory Board.
Every member of the cooperative in 2024 had one vote
at the General Meeting, regardless of the total value of its
participations in the cooperative. The Annual General Meeting
in June 2024 approved a proposed change in the voting

6

Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

system, which can result in additional votes per country.
This was introduced based on a request from the General
Meeting in 2021 to better reflect the number of members of
support associations in the voting system.
The following rules apply when allocating additional votes to
support associations:
• Additional votes can be allocated to support associations
(SAs) only.
• Additional votes will be determined per country (not per SA),
only in countries where at least one SA has its registered seat.
• The number of votes is determined for each General Meeting
based on the number of participants in a country.
• One additional vote for each block of 2,000 participants in
a country.
• Cap of maximum 32 additional votes per country.
The revised voting system will go into effect in 2025. The
new system does not affect ownership or control of the
organisation; Oikocredit is not directly or indirectly owned or
controlled by any member or other entity. While exercising
their voting right at the General Meeting, a member may be
represented by an alternative representative on the basis of
a written power of attorney. No person may represent more
than three members.

Members’ Council

The Members’ Council was established to represent and
promote the interests of Oikocredit’s members, to share
members’ views with regard to relevant matters with the
Supervisory Board and the Managing Board, and to advise
accordingly and coordinate meetings of members (other than
General Meetings). The Members’ Council consists of at least
five people elected by the General Meeting.
The maximum number of members of the Members’ Council
and other composition details are laid down in the profile
of the Members’ Council, which has been adopted by the
General Meeting.
The Members’ Council meets regularly between the General
Meetings of members to discuss members’ issues and gives
input to other governing bodies on topics of interest or
concern to members. It was initially set up in 2016, and the
General Meeting in 2022 adopted a proposal to strengthen
and formalise the role of the council as a formal body of
Oikocredit. The work of the Members’ Council over the past
year is described in the council’s report starting on page 33.

Supervisory Board

Oikocredit has a two-tier governance structure in which
the Supervisory Board acts as the deliberative, guiding and
supervising non-executive body. As its formal employer,
it oversees the work of the Managing Board, which is
responsible for the overall management of Oikocredit.
Both boards together are responsible for keeping Oikocredit
true to its vision, mission and values.

The Supervisory Board supervises the policies pursued by
the Managing Board and the general course of affairs of
Oikocredit and the business enterprise connected with it.
The Supervisory Board also assists the Managing Board
by actively providing advice. In carrying out its duties, the
Supervisory Board is guided by the interests and the values
of Oikocredit and the business enterprise connected with
it, and it takes into account the relevant interests of the
cooperative’s members and other stakeholders.
Supervision of the Managing Board by the Supervisory Board
includes:
• The realisation of the objectives of Oikocredit;
• Strategy and the risks inherent in the business activities;
• The design and effectiveness of the internal risk
management and control systems;
• The financial reporting process;
• Compliance with regulations and legislation;
• The relationship with cooperative members; and
• Corporate social responsibility and sustainability issues
relevant to the cooperative’s business.

management are in place, for establishing the policy
framework, and for maintaining the values and culture of
Oikocredit.
The members of the Managing Board (the statutory directors
of the Executive Committee) are: Managing Director, Director
of Finance & Risk, Director of Inflow & Business Enablers and
Director of Impact Investments.
The non-statutory directors of the Executive Committee are:
Director of Accounting, Control & Tax, Director of Investor
Relations & Capital Raising, Director of Specialised Finance &
Community Building and Director of People & Development.
The Director of Strategy & Sustainable Impact joined
Executive Committee meetings for the discussion of relevant
topics but as of June 2024 is no longer a member of the
committee.

The Supervisory Board has established four committees from
its members to assist its work: the Remuneration, Nomination
and Selection Committee; the Audit, Risk and Compliance
Committee; the Impact Investments and Innovation
Committee; and the Member and Investor Engagement
Committee (until March 2024 named the Capital Inflow
Committee). Board committees have an advisory role and
no decision-making powers.
The work of the Supervisory Board over the past year is
described in the board’s report starting on page 27.

Managing Board and Executive Committee

The Supervisory Board appoints the members of the
Managing Board. All Managing Board members are based at
the Oikocredit international office, Berkenweg 7, 3818 LA,
Amersfoort, the Netherlands.
The Managing Board has wide powers with regard to the
management of Oikocredit, including authority to decide
on matters not specifically attributed and reserved to the
General Meeting or the Supervisory Board. The Managing
Board is charged with developing and implementing the
strategy and with compliance with legislation, regulations, risk
management and auditing requirements. The Managing Board
has the power to delegate its powers to Oikocredit staff
members nominated as proxy holders; such delegation can
be made subject to conditions and limitations.
The Executive Committee was introduced in July 2022
and consists of all members of the Managing Board (the
statutory directors of the cooperative) and four non-statutory
members. The Executive Committee is responsible for
implementing the strategy, for the day-to-day management
of Oikocredit, for ensuring adequate funding and risk

Corporate governance

7

8

Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Managing Board report

We are pleased to present the
annual report and consolidated
financial statements of Oikocredit,
Ecumenical Development
Cooperative Society U.A.
(the Society) for 2024.
This report highlights the
most important developments
during the year.

Robert Baingama, pictured, is Head of Business
at EBO savings and credit cooperative in Mbarara
district, western Uganda. EBO has been an Oikocredit
partner since 2016. Today, Oikocredit and Aqua for All jointly
support its water and sanitation (WASH) portfolio.
EBO works with installers to supply pumps and tanks for gravity-fed water
distribution. Its loans help improve WASH services for farms, households and
schools, and it promotes awareness about the health value of clean water.
“EBO offers financing for clients who can afford to take a loan but lack
the upfront funds to invest in water infrastructure,” Robert explains.

Managing Board report

9

Adapting and
succeeding together
Oikocredit has always worked for a peaceful,
equitable and sustainable future for humankind.
Facing the current ‘polycrisis’, we remain true
to our vision and mission and committed to our
strategy. In 2024 our cooperative achieved a
great deal, responded to challenges, and stayed
aware of the further changes we may need to
make to continue leading by example to promote
responsible impact investing in today’s world.
In 2024 Oikocredit came face to face with new external
and internal realities. Externally, we saw more political
change and unpredictability around the world, following
elections in many countries. Changing climate and weather
patterns impacted on populations and enterprises on
all continents, confirming the reality of climate injustice:
disadvantaged and least-polluting communities experience
greater harm.
Investors’ appetite for social impact investing and for risk
appear to be reducing, despite continuing high levels of need.
Access to financial services is maturing with digitalisation
and technology. Now that our work of promoting financial
inclusion has proved so fruitful across Africa, Asia, and
Latin America and the Caribbean, we see that poverty and
inequality are increasingly multidimensional. Disadvantage
involves not only a lack of money but also, for example,
unequal access to energy, good nutrition, knowledge and
markets, as well as health problems arising from pollution,
the disruption of livelihoods by biodiversity loss, soil
depletion, droughts and floods, and other factors.
Our cooperative is changing internally too. We are adjusting
the organisational structure to align with our recently adopted
new capital-raising model. This has altered the division of
roles and responsibilities between the international office in
Amersfoort and the support associations. The international
office is now responsible for the acquisition and servicing of
investors. We have complemented staff transferred from the
support associations with new hires experienced in marketing
and in digitalisation of investment processes.
We are also gradually modifying the impact investing portfolio
to place more emphasis on community-focused investments
and climate resilience. Simultaneously, we see that we must
become more agile in responding to new types of portfolio
risk such as in Bolivia and Cambodia (reported below).
We continue to develop our information technology to
optimise efficiency and lead times and to improve security
levels. Further, we are working on our operational skills
and culture. Changing rules and regulations, in addition
to reputational concerns, require consistent attention to
compliance and to internal policies and procedures.

10 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

The cooperative opened its first regional partner service
centre, for Latin America and the Caribbean, and has decided
to close the Southeast Asia regional office in the Philippines
(where we no longer have active partnerships) and to take on
investment staff in Cambodia and Indonesia.
At Managing Board level, we were sorry to lose Gwen van
Berne, our Director of Finance & Risk, who left us at the end
of the year to pursue another career opportunity, and sorry
that Dave Smit, Director of Impact Investments, decided to
leave Oikocredit, with his departure set for 1 April 2025.
Gwen’s responsibilities will be taken on an interim basis by
the Managing Director, with specific tasks divided among the
Executive Committee members. While, Hans Perk, currently
Director of Specialised Finance & Community Building, will
succeed Dave on an interim basis. We welcomed two new
Supervisory Board members and two new Members’ Council
representatives at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Costa
Rica in June.

Implementing our strategy

Oikocredit’s 2022-2026 strategy sees our work of investing
to support people who live on low incomes to improve their
lives and livelihoods, strengthening community resilience,
and advancing responsible impact investing as the apex
of a pyramid. We aim to achieve this by building a holistic
approach to support communities, nurturing our global
investor movement and facilitating interconnections.
Our portfolio of carefully designed community resilience
projects in areas such as education, water and sanitation,
housing, infrastructure, and climate-smart agriculture is
expanding. In several cases we now have thriving multi-year
collaborations with strategic partners such as Opportunity
International (education) and Aqua for All (water and sanitation).
Our annual Client Self-Perception Survey is proving its worth
in helping direct our attention to where the people we serve
most need support or see opportunity to develop. Partner
organisations increasingly draw on client survey findings
in their design of financial and non-financial products and
services. We too are responding to what we hear from
partners and their clients via the survey as we prepare to
launch our first Global Learning for Transformation and
Advocacy campaign, ‘Invest in Climate Action’, in 2025.
Regarding the cooperative’s investor movement, we spent
much of 2024 attending to capital preservation and adapting
our structure to the recently changed capital-raising model.
This has meant helping staff settle into new roles, developing
plans and capabilities, and conducting further ‘know your
customer’ remediation. Amid these changes, member and
investor capital continued to decline, with more redemptions
than purchases of our investment product, participations.

To facilitate connections, our Oikocredit Journey for investors
to Peru, with a focus on coffee supply chains, was a success,
as was the learning journey we organised to Cambodia. We
also held multiple online and offline events during the year to
bring stakeholders together.

Oikocredit’s 2024 mid-term review
We have undertaken a mid-term review to assess how well
our strategy implementation addresses the cooperative’s
vision of a more just society where all people can live
sustainably and with dignity. We concluded that our work
should have greater focus on promoting climate justice and
climate resilience, while also confirming that ‘gender lens’
investing works: female entrepreneurship and livelihoods are
elevated when we and our partners invest to support women.
The review recognised the potential social impact benefits
of augmenting our capacity building (much of it coimplemented with donor funds to maximise impact), the
Client Self-Perception Survey, and work with partners on their
environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance.
It also showed the need to optimise the composition of the
impact investing portfolio to better balance impact, risk and
return. In the countries where we raise finance, our focus
should be on capital preservation in tandem with onboarding
new and younger investors.
Internally, we are working on cultural and structural changes to
enhance our efficiency, effectiveness and financial performance.

Oikocredit’s 2024 mid-term review
In 2024 the cooperative’s mid-term review of the 20222026 strategic plan confirmed that our work continues
to offer solutions to help build sustainable and climateresilient communities, ensure quality of life for current
and future generations, demonstrate impact and generate
a fair return for stakeholders. The review indicated that,
although the fundamentals of our strategy remain sound,
we should make adjustments for 2025-2026 in view of
market circumstances that we did not anticipate when
defining the strategy.
These circumstances include lacklustre economic
growth worldwide; heightened global uncertainty; the
commercialisation of financial inclusion; the severity for
our partners’ clients and their communities of rapidly
intensifying and increasingly frequent adverse climate
change impacts; an increasing regulatory, reporting and
compliance burden; effects of the mainstreaming and
growth of impact investing; and rising interest rates,
returns and levels of risk.

Setbacks

As previously reported, we have been in dialogue with three
non-governmental organisations (NGOs) following their
complaint to the Dutch National Contact Point (NCP) for the
OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises on Responsible
Business Conduct alleging non-compliance with the guidelines
in relation to Oikocredit’s work in Cambodia. The NCP’s
good offices procedures ended in January 2025 after three
rounds with no fully mediated agreement. Parties found
common ground on three points: first, there are problems in
Cambodia’s microfinance sector; second, some borrowers are
suffering adverse impacts, which need to be addressed; and
third, a grievance mechanism and fund, which comply with the
OECD Guidelines and the United Nations Guiding Principles on
Business and Human Rights, should be established to address
these problems and adverse impacts. The NCP will issue a
final statement in 2025.
In Bolivia, as we describe below, exceptional politicoeconomic circumstances have created major difficulties for
partners in obtaining US dollars to make their payments.
This has required large loan loss provisions on our side that
have prevented us from achieving the year’s anticipated net
positive result.
Underperformance of our capital raising among members
and investors has also been disappointing for several reasons,
as we discuss below.

targets; adopte a more conscious and cautious approach
to portfolio development; build impactful partnerships;
and achieve modest growth in member and investor
capital while changing the composition (new investor
groups and younger investors).
Our work is today better informed than ever by our
annual Client Self-Perception Surveys and partner social
and financial performance data. Our primary investing
approach in financial inclusion, agriculture and renewable
energy will therefore be augmented, with stronger gender,
climate and environmental dimensions, transitioning from
social impact to sustainable impact for people and their
communities.
These adjustments will require careful collective
embedding within the organisation. But we are confident
that our caring culture will enable us to support one
another as we adapt, grow and succeed together.
To read more about our revised strategy for 2025-2026,
scan or click on this QR code:

While staying faithful to our mission, we consequently
need to focus more on the financial sustainability of our
operating model (lowering costs and risk, increasing
productivity, and investing in technology and systems
to support the strategy); acknowlede our people’s
performance, nurture talents and delivere on agreed

Managing Board report 11

Cooperative values and identity discussion

Everybody who is involved in Oikocredit can take satisfaction
from the way we continue to operate according to our
cooperative values of participatory decision-making and
reciprocity. The design of our forthcoming Global Learning for
Transformation and Advocacy work to promote climate justice
has been a collective endeavour, closely involving the support
associations – who will co-lead the campaign – and responding
to realities faced, and concerns expressed, by partners and
clients.
We are proud of our diverse, empowered and engaged
workforce, and of our attention to our organisation’s
sustainability, both of which we report on below.
Since the AGM, Oikocredit’s members have started an open
discussion about the future of the cooperative, including but
not limited to aspects such as membership, mission, vision
and the nature of our business activities. This has followed
the circulation of a document from the Members’ Council,
Supervisory Board and Managing Board describing the strains
and challenges the organisation now appears to face. Led by
a core team of member representatives, supported by staff,
and with a steering committee for oversight and advice, the
dialogue aims to make the cooperative fit for another 50 years
of impact investing.

Sustainability statement

Oikocredit’s work has always been concerned with the
delivery of sustainable impact. We have developed the
following sustainability statement to formalise our approach:
At Oikocredit, we see a world where smallholder farmers
produce roughly one third of the world’s food but often don’t
receive a fair price;1 nearly one in two people live on less
than USD 6.85 per day;2 one in ten people have no access to
electricity;3 one in five children have no access to education;4
and only one in three women are part of the formal economy.
We want to contribute to building a better world where
everyone has access to opportunities and resources for a life
of dignity. A world where every household makes sufficient
income to live safely and enjoy good health, education
and decent work. A world where everyone has meaningful
participation in decision-making in the political, economic and
social spheres.
We are an impact investor that puts human rights and social
and environmental impact at the core of our purpose. We
support millions of people around the world in their efforts
to improve their lives and increasingly focus on climate.
We do this through investments in microfinance institutions,
small and medium enterprise banks, agricultural cooperatives

Lowder, Sánchez and Bertini, ‘Which farms feed the world and has farmland
become more concentrated?’ World Development, 142, June 2021, https://
www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0305750X2100067X?via%3Dihub
2
World Bank Group, Correcting Course: Poverty and Shared Prosperity 2022,
https://www.worldbank.org/en/publication/poverty-and-shared-prosperity
3
Ritchie, Rosado and Roser, ‘Access to Energy’, OurWorldInData.org, 2019,
https://ourworldindata.org/energy-access
4
Ritchie, Samborska, Ahuja, Ortiz-Ospina and Roser, ‘Global Education’,
OurWorldInData.org, 2023, https://ourworldindata.org/global-education
1

12 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

and renewable energy enterprises across Africa, Asia, and
Latin America and the Caribbean.
Oikocredit’s financial and non-financial support helps increase
access to decent jobs and improve wellbeing, including
through more affordable water and sanitation, health
services, education, renewable energy and housing. We
advocate and work for an environmentally sustainable world
where humankind lives within planetary boundaries;5
We create opportunities for a solidarity economy,
international cooperation, innovation and partnerships.
Our local presence in our countries of operation enables
us to build long-term relationships with investee partner
organisations and to continually enrich our understanding of
country- and sector-specific circumstances and challenges.
This proximity to our partners facilitates the development
of joint solutions to enhance their financial, social and
environmental performance, thereby improving organisational
value in the long term.
This commitment to financial, social and environmental
performance – a holistic approach to sustainability – shapes
our mission, leading to positive outcomes in five essential
areas:

Income resilience
Oikocredit provides financial services and supports
organisations to improve the quality of life of people and
communities living on low incomes in a sustainable way.
This means ensuring that our partners directly or indirectly
provide living wages and income-generating opportunities for
people and households, ultimately enhancing their resilience
and contributing towards their progress out of poverty. When
unforeseen income shocks arise, Oikocredit is there to help
partners navigate these challenges through financial and nonfinancial services that support clients.

Social justice and inclusiveness
To contribute to the building of a just global society,
Oikocredit is committed to providing inclusive access
to financial services. We seek to include and support
cooperatives, as we consider their structure and dynamics
to be strongly aligned with our values. We strive for gender
equality and inclusion of youth. We support our partners in
following client protection standards, and in ensuring fair and
respectful treatment of clients, transparent interest rates and
contracts that prevent over-indebtedness.
Within our own organisation, we recognise that fostering a
diverse and inclusive workplace is fundamental to achieving
our goals. We want to ensure that every individual associated
with Oikocredit feels valued, respected and empowered.
Diversity, equity and inclusion are not simply buzzwords for
us but integral pillars of our organisational culture.
We cherish and acknowledge what we have achieved
together. We are a gender-diverse organisation, we embrace
what makes us unique and we treat each other with respect.

5

Doughnut Economics Action Lab, ‘About Doughnut Economics’,
https://doughnuteconomics.org/about-doughnut-economics

Environmental sustainability
Oikocredit’s ambition focuses on delivering our strategy within
planetary boundaries. This includes building sustainable
infrastructure for communities and working with future
generations of leaders and enterprise owners on ways to
achieve sustainable long-term community development and
wellbeing.
Where we suspect high environmental risk, we ask our partners
to conduct environmental impact assessments. And through
our investments in renewable energy (solar electricity and
clean cooking stoves), and regenerative agriculture and we
seek to reduce and offset CO2 emissions and contribute
towards a carbon-neutral economy. Where emissions cannot
be completely eliminated, Oikocredit aims to offset these
through our own value chain.

Community services and quality of life

2024 in graphs
Investment mix Oikocredit invested funds
As at 31 December 2024

€ millions

As an organisation we offer everyone the development
opportunities they need to reach their full potential and treat
all employees equally.

1000
900
800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0

Recognising that income resilience and social justice are
incomplete without good-quality community services,
Oikocredit supports communities’ access to education,
affordable housing, water, sanitation and renewable energy.
We believe that access to such good-quality services and
infrastructure improves wellbeing and contributes towards
enhancing climate adaptation and mitigation. Building
communities’ resilience strengthens and supports local
economic development.

13.8
Development financing: agricultural and other sectors
(higher risk)
Development financing: financial intermediaries
(higher risk)
Other securities

10 countries with highest
development financing outstanding
As at 31 December 2024

Oikocredit seeks to incorporate income resilience, social justice,
inclusivity, environmental sustainability and community access to
infrastructure in our work and outcomes to contribute towards
a sustainable future for everyone. While not every project we
invest in aims to address all aspects of sustainability, we make
thoughtful decisions that prioritise sustainable impact, yield
decent returns and strike a balance with risk.

Community of investors

€ millions

Oikocredit’s structure as a cooperative reflects the importance
we give to the engagement, inclusion, participation and
empowerment of our stakeholders. Our members and investors
are indispensable for the functioning and operation of the
cooperative.
Our operational model nurtures the formation of communities
of members and investors around themes, campaigns and
issues. Our members and investors include individuals and
organisations from various backgrounds across a number
of countries who share a commitment to impact investing
with a focus on social development, financial inclusion and
sustainability. We believe that building a strong base of
members and investors and fostering mutual learning with

266.6

260
250
240
230
220
210
200
190
180
170
160
150
140
130
120
110
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0

In
di
Ke a
n
Ec ya
u
El ad
Sa or
lva
d
Bo or
liv
Me ia
Gu xi
at co
em
ala
Pe
r
Ni u
Co ger
st ia
aR
ica

Organisational resilience and enhanced capacities
Over the years, Oikocredit has learned that social impact
and development benefits are best sustained if we work
with our partners to address challenges relating to skills,
governance, management capacity, new technology, networks
and markets. We have therefore developed our capacity
building programmes to help enhance partners’ organisational
effectiveness and clients’ wellbeing.

839.2

Managing Board report 13

current and future generations in the countries where we
raise capital are essential to achieve a more equitable and
environmentally sustainable world.

Financial results

Oikocredit closed 2024 with a loss of EUR 8.1 million.
This result, unforeseen earlier in the year, arose from the
exceptional political and economic situation in Bolivia, our
fifth largest development financing portfolio country. Amid
much political instability, expatriation of US dollars from
Bolivia became possible only with payment of excessive fees
that rose very fast during the second half of the year. We
had to make large additional loan loss provisions because of
this, while also starting discussions with Bolivian partners on
eligibility for loan rescheduling or a moratorium.
The extraordinary events this past year in Bolivia are among
the risks Oikocredit takes deliberately as part of our social
impact investing mission. Had loan loss provisioning for
Bolivia not been necessary, we would have closed 2024 with
a positive overall result of EUR 2.8 million.
In terms of other results, we came close to meeting our
development financing goal for the year, with total credit and
equity growing solidly. Member and investor capital growth,
by contrast, underperformed. Reasons for this included
competition from higher bank and savings interest rates,
which attracted some of the capital we hoped would come
to us, and the current economic uncertainty, leading many
people to invest with caution. Our continuing ‘know your
customer’ and anti-money-laundering remediation also led
to redemptions.
We exceeded our anticipated operating income, benefitting
from strong net interest margins (interest on development
financing portfolio minus hedging premiums) and from equity
sales and dividends. General and administrative costs
increased in line with expectations – and subject to stringent
controls – as our new capital-raising model required muchneeded investments in digitalisation and automation to
service retail investors.

Income statement 2024
The cooperative’s net EUR 8.1 million loss for the year
reversed our 2023 positive result of EUR 1.6 million. Our
total development financing income (loan interest, equity
investment income and other income) was EUR 113.6
million, up from EUR 91.8 million in 2023. Total operating
income (interest income and expenses, income from equity
investments, grant income, and other income and expenses)
grew to EUR 85.1 million from EUR 59.4 million.
Oikocredit realised a net capital gain of EUR 9.0 million
through the sale of nine equity investments, four of which
generated a gain and five a loss, and we received EUR 7.5
million in equity dividends. We also sold our remaining
investment in GLS Microfinanzfonds (part of Oikocredit’s other
securities), with a gain of EUR 0.5 million.
We continued to protect our investing against foreign
exchange rate risk by hedging, adopting new strategies in
hedging our exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate
risks and adjusting our hedging of risk exposure relating

14 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

to our wholly owned Indian subsidiary, Maanaveeya. Total
hedging premiums reduced during the year from EUR 26.3
million to EUR 24.6 million – both because of the higher
interest rate environment and as we ceased to hedge our
open-ended investment in Maanaveeya. We started to hedge
against Euribor (Euro interbank offered rate) fluctuations to
help stabilise interest income.

Operational expenses
Operating costs for the year at EUR 45.3 million (up from
EUR 44.6 million in 2023) were as expected and without
exceptional items. We are satisfied with the effectiveness
of our cost management, including quarterly cost control
meetings. General and administrative costs (excluding grantbased expenses) declined to 3.8% of total assets (from 3.9% in
2023), while the cost-to-income ratio fell from 75.0% to 53.3%.

Loan loss provisions and equity impairments
Total loan loss provisions and impairments on equity
investments grew from 5.7% to 7.8% of total outstanding
credit and equity, and from EUR 61.6 million to EUR 86.6
million in total. With portfolio quality deteriorating as
measured by our portfolio at risk ratio (PAR 90), loan loss
provisioning increased from EUR 45.4 million to EUR 63.6
million and from 4.9% to 6.7% of the credit portfolio. This was
mainly because of the macroeconomic situation in Bolivia
and in relation to loans to two large partners in Peru and to
partners in Africa and in agriculture. Loan write-offs increased
compared with 2023.
Equity impairments were up from EUR 16.1 million to EUR
23.0 million and from 10.8% to 14.9% of the equity portfolio,
consistent with expectations.

Cash and liquidity management
At the end of 2024 net liquidity stood at 14.8% of assets, rising
from 11.3% the previous year and well above our internal
threshold. We monitor the liquidity ratio monthly, increasing
this to weekly when it falls into our contingency range. At
such times, we can draw on our revolving credit facility at two
banks. We have extended this short-term facility for a further
year, increasing it to EUR 100 million. In periods of excess
liquidity, we place our cash in short-term bank deposits,
which this year earned a positive return of EUR 0.6 million.

Reserves and annual dividend
Oikocredit’s general reserves continue at a good level. They
decreased in 2024 from EUR 84.7 million to EUR 80.7 million,
because of the decision at the June 2024 Annual General
Meeting (AGM) to pay members and investors a 0.5% dividend
for 2023, which in total exceeded the positive result for the
year of EUR 1.6 million.
The restricted exchange fluctuation reserve reduced from
EUR 4.4 million to EUR 3.8 million. This reserve is restricted
to INR exchange rate fluctuations linked to our subsidiary
Maanaveeya, which we ceased to hedge during 2024.
With the unforeseen loss arising in 2024 from the situation
in Bolivia, the Managing Board, with the Supervisory Board’s
endorsement, will propose no dividend be awarded for the
year at the June 2025 AGM.

Impact investments

Oikocredit provides loans, equity investments and
capacity building to organisations working with people and
communities living on low incomes across Africa, Asia, and
Latin America and the Caribbean. Despite the challenging
environment we operate in, our financial support for partners
continued to increase in 2024. We disbursed EUR 474.7
million during the year, to both current and new partners,
and with healthy growth in our community-focused investing.
And we surpassed the EUR 1.1 billion development finance
portfolio mark.

Type of financing offered by Oikocredit
As at 31 December 2024

14%

With portfolio growth, we generated a good level of income.
The main contributing factor was that we could realise an
increase in net interest margins on loans, reflecting rising
credit risk. We also realised substantial equity results,
including both divestments and dividends, to which all regions
contributed.
Loan loss provisions increased, mainly due to issues in
the agriculture sector and the extraordinary situation of
repatriation risk materialising in Bolivia, as discussed under
‘Financial results’ above. With heightened risk levels, we were
more cautious in onboarding new partners.
Elections in a record number of countries, international
turbulence and uncertainty, and climate change and extreme
weather challenge our investing. The European Union’s
new Deforestation Regulation has generated new costs
and concerns about compliance for many rural enterprise
partners and smallholder farmer clients. Uneven portfolio
quality, measured by our portfolio at risk ratio, therefore
remains a point of increased attention.
We now use Salesforce software for all our core investing
processes, including disbursements and change requests,
enabling a better grip on our processes and reducing
throughput time. Straight-through automated processing has
brought efficiency to our repeat lending to financial inclusion
partners. Standardised and adjusted loan agreements enable
partners to share data with the Atlas platform, avoiding
duplicative reporting when dealing with more impact investors.
Another innovation has been the establishment of our first
regional partner service centre, covering Latin America and
the Caribbean. This new unit handles systemic data collection
and due diligence on our investments and partnerships
in the region. It enables investment officers to focus on
supporting partners, adding value and exploring new business
opportunities.

Portfolio volume, approvals and disbursements

86%

Loans

Development financing outstanding by sector
As at 31 December 2024

6%
17%

77%

Financial inclusion*

Renewable energy

Agriculture

Other

* Including microfinance and SME finance

Development financing outstanding by region
As at 31 December 2024

3%
21%

In our investing this year, we adopted a more cautious
approach to taking on new partners and tightened our
internal country and product limits in view of the perceived
elevated risks. We nevertheless disbursed substantially to
partners to help them support people living on low incomes,
and their communities, in improving their quality of life in a
sustainable way.
The cooperative’s total development financing portfolio of
outstanding credit and equity grew from EUR 1,084.7 million
to EUR 1,105.3 million, an increase of 1.9% from 2023. Net

Equity investments

45%

30%

Africa

Latin America & the Caribbean

Asia

Other

Managing Board report 15

Portfolio at risk

approvals reduced by 37.8% from EUR 602.3 million in 2023
to EUR 374.8 million, and disbursements by 10.5% from EUR
530.6 million to EUR 474.7 million. We closed the year with
487 partners in 52 countries (compared with 540 partners
in 52 countries in 2023). We are active in 32 countries in
our focus regions – Africa, Asia, and Latin America and the
Caribbean – and winding down in the Philippines.

As percentage of loan portfolio
As at 31 December 2024
25%

20%

Our disbursements of credit and equity this year comprised
EUR 430.8 million to current partners and EUR 43.9 million
to new partners. Average financing per partner was EUR 2.3
million (2023: EUR 2.0 million), and the average loan period
was 4.0 years (2023: 4.1 years).

15%

10%
% portfolio at risk

Sector developments
Financial inclusion, agriculture and renewable energy
comprise Oikocredit’s three focus areas for investing.
Financial inclusion, our largest sector, accounted for 77.3%
of total credit and equity at year-end (compared with 76.8%
at end-2023). We had EUR 854.7 million (up by 2.6% from
EUR 833.4 million) invested in 337 financial inclusion partners,
including microfinance institutions (MFIs) and financial
institutions supporting small to medium enterprises (SMEs).
Approvals of new loans and investments in financial inclusion
totalled EUR 327.9 million (31.0% down from 2023) and
disbursements EUR 331.5 million (15.7% down).

5%

0%

2022

2023

PAR 90
total portfolio

2024

PAR 90
financial inclusion

PAR 90
other sectors

Progression of the development
financing portfolio
As at 31 December 2024

€ millions

1,085

(444)

475

(1)

December Dis- Repaid
2023 bursed

(21)

(18)

Capita- Writelised
offs
interest
and
dividends

(1)

31

(1)

Foreign December
Divest- Deduct
Net
ments historical asset exchange 2024
value differencost
ces
signisignificant
ficant
influinfluence
ence
invest- investments ments

PAR 90 ratio (%)

36%
51%

25%

67%

13%
12%

da
Bo
l
Ur ivia
ug
ua
Bu Me y
rk xic
in o
a
Gu Fas
at o
em
ala
Cô Be
te nin
d’
Ivo
ire

Ug

an

Pe

Ke
ny

a

32% 7% 20%

ru

PAR 90 value (€ millions)

As at 31 December 2024
19%

16 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Agriculture, our second largest focus sector, represented
16.7% of the cooperative’s total impact investing in 2024
(17.1% in 2023). Credit and equity in agriculture totalled
EUR 184.7 million (down by 0.6% from EUR 185.8 million),
invested in 116 partners. New approvals in agriculture
came to EUR 35.3 million (66.4% down from 2023) and
disbursements EUR 120.1 million (0.8% up).
Our work with smallholder farmer organisations and
agriculture-based SMEs faces trade tensions, extreme
weather, volatile commodity prices, and post-pandemic
effects such as labour shortages and logistic hurdles. Some
partners, especially in Africa in subsectors such as tea and
nuts, have had difficulties making payments on time. Noting
increasing agriculture portfolio risk, we started a mid-term
review of the sector investment strategy (with a revisited
sector strategy to be presented early in 2025). In view of
concerns over the quality of the agriculture portfolio, we
decided to focus on supporting current partners and to pause
adding new agriculture partners from the second half of the
year onwards.

10 countries with highest PAR 90
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0

1,105

In our lending to MFIs and financial institutions serving
SMEs we continue to strive for greater efficiency and
balance on our risk–impact–return mandate with careful
monitoring of partner performance and attention to portfolio
quality.

AgriGRADE – our strategic collaboration with Agriterra, IDH,
IDH Farmfit Fund and SCOPEinsight – continues to increase
impact in supporting smallholder cooperatives and other
farmer organisations in Kenya and Tanzania. We are also
deepening our partnership with IDH Farmfit Fund in Latin
America, helping consolidate our position as the largest
smallholder trade finance provider in these markets.

Credit and equity in renewable energy, our third focus sector,
comprised 5.7% of the total outstanding portfolio in 2024
(5.4% in 2023). Here our investments grew to EUR 63.1 million
(up by 7.6% from EUR 58.6 million), with a total of 28 partners
(including two new partners this year).
Our renewable energy portfolio followed general market
trends, with some partners impacted by foreign exchange
issues, and inflationary pressures leading to affordability
constraints reducing some clients’ ability to pay for offgrid solutions. There is an increasing sense of urgency
about addressing the need for access to off-grid energy,
with 2030 drawing ever closer and progress towards SDG7
(sustainable energy for all) stalling. The World Bank and
African Development Bank have launched a new initiative
to accelerate energy access across sub-Saharan Africa.
Our renewable energy investments in Nigeria, Uganda and
other African countries stand to benefit.

Community-focused projects
Oikocredit’s 2022-2026 strategy embraces investing to
support lower-income communities in building resilience
in the face of increasing uncertainty and threats such as
climate change, extreme weather, environmental degradation
and health crises. The community-focused segment of our
portfolio, including investments in education, water and
sanitation, housing and community infrastructure, is gaining
traction and clearly meets market demand, reaching
EUR 84.4 million in 2024 (up from EUR 57.3 million in 2023).
Two multi-year community-focused strategic partnerships
are achieving considerable impact. With Opportunity
International, we support financial institutions that lend at
fair rates to non-state schools and to families for school fees,
increasing access to capital for affordable child education
in underserved communities. And with Aqua for All, we are
scaling up the availability of loans from financial institutions
to water and sanitation SMEs in Africa and Asia, widening
access to low-cost sustainable client services.
We have launched a new strategic partnership with Water.org
to provide loans and technical assistance to selected financial
institutions supporting water and sanitation projects in Brazil,
Mexico and Peru.
Many of our inclusive finance partners serve the affordable
housing sector by providing credit and other support to
increase availability of good-quality housing for people in
lower-income communities. This year we took an equity
stake in Indian housing finance company Altum Credo,
which provides long-term home loans to clients who would
otherwise struggle to access credit.
Our investing in community infrastructure mainly supports
renewable energy projects driving productive use of energy
and adjacent services in local communities. In addition, in
2024 we made our first investment in a carbon sequestration
solution in the agricultural value chain by partnering with
French green-tech company NetZero in support of its biochar
production facility in Brazil. NetZero extracts atmospheric
carbon and enables smallholder coffee farmers to improve
their crop yields and their incomes.

Regional portfolios
Oikocredit’s three focus regions are Africa, Asia (India and
Southeast Asia), and Latin America and the Caribbean.
In Africa the development financing portfolio increased by
4.4% in 2024 from EUR 225.7 million to EUR 235.5 million,
comprising 21.3% of our credit and equity (2023: 20.8%) and
with 126 partners.
Most African countries where we operate have experienced
high inflation, devaluation and currency volatility. Other
contextual factors include climate change impacts, effects
on trade due to the wars in the Middle East and Ukraine, and
political instability in the Sahel countries. These dynamics
affect the ability of micro, small and medium enterprises to
do business and the livelihoods of smallholder farmers and
other people on low incomes. Some West African countries
involved in monetary cooperation agreements with France
have challenged this collaboration, resulting in complications
in currency repatriation for Oikocredit.
Yet, despite the challenges, our investing in Africa held up
well, with most of our activity in countries and sectors where
difficulties were less severe. We were pleased to mark 30
years of doing business in Africa with a celebratory event in
Nairobi, Kenya. Our community-focused investing in education
and in water and sanitation in the region expanded. African
partners’ environmental, social and governance (ESG) scores
for new transactions remained above average, and we
continue to work with African partners with low ESG scores
to make improvements.
In Asia outstanding credit and equity grew by 7.4% from
EUR 308.9 million to EUR 331.9 million, accounting for 30.0%
of our impact investing (2023: 28.5%) and involving 116
partners. In India our wholly owned subsidiary, Maanaveeya,
recorded another good year of portfolio expansion, quality,
diversification, social impact and mandatory corporate social
responsibility activities. Currently Maanaveeya reaches more
than 37 million clients through its 95 partners; 95% of these
clients are women and 72% are rural dwellers. Celebrating
its 20th anniversary in 2024, Maanaveeya has developed
proposals to increase impact in the years ahead.
Economic conditions in Southeast Asian countries are
challenging. We continue to support our partners, particularly
smaller microfinance institutions (MFIs), by providing both
liquidity and capacity building. In Indonesia we conducted
risk management training for three partners and co-hosted
a water and sanitation roadshow with Aqua for All. We
organised a microfinance learning journey to Cambodia for
our support associations to deepen their understanding of
our work with microfinance partners there.
As previously announced, we are gradually winding down
the Southeast Asia regional office in the Philippines and have
instead recruited officers in the countries we are active in,
to be closer to partners in Cambodia and Indonesia.
Our outstanding investments in Latin America and the
Caribbean declined by 1.0% from EUR 507.3 million to
EUR 502.3 million, representing 45.4% of our portfolio
(2023: 46.8%) and supporting 229 partners. Several countries
in the region face social, political, fiscal and growth issues,

Managing Board report 17

worsening inequality, high informality and significant
gender gaps. Problems are generally less acute, and
opportunities better, in Brazil, Central America and
Mexico, where we currently focus our investing. We stay
close to and carefully monitor partners both to maintain
and improve portfolio quality and to be alert to new highimpact investment opportunities.
Notable new portfolio developments in the region include
our collaboration with NetZero in Brazil to produce
biochar and the approval of other new community-focused
investments. Organisationally, this year we established the
cooperative’s first regional partner service centre in Latin
America and the Caribbean. With the departure of our
former regional director, two team members have taken
on joint leadership of our investing in the region.

Credit portfolio
Oikocredit aims to provide approximately 85% of its
impact investing for partners in the form of credit,
with the balance of 15% as equity capital. At end-2024
outstanding credit was 86.0% of our total investments,
rising by 1.7% from EUR 935.1 million (2023) to EUR 950.8
million (excluding loan loss provisions). We had 444 credit
partners (2023: 490). New loan approvals (145 in number)
totalled EUR 356.4 million (2023: 212 new approvals
totalling EUR 558.0); disbursements were EUR 450.5 million
(2023: EUR 512.3 million).
By sector, our lending was distributed between financial
inclusion (up by 1.4% from EUR 743.4 million to EUR 753.7
million; 79.2% of the credit portfolio), agriculture (up by
5.2% from EUR 147.3 million to EUR 154.9 million; 16.3%
of credit) and renewable energy (down by 0.2% from
EUR 41.2 million to EUR 41.1 million; 4.3% of credit).
Regional allocations were Africa, 21.0%; Asia, 28.7%; Latin
America and the Caribbean, 48.2%; other regions, 2.1%.

Equity portfolio
Equity represented 14.0% of our outstanding portfolio
at year-end, up by 3.3% from EUR 149.6 million (2023) to
EUR 154.5 million (excluding impairments). New equity
approvals stood at EUR 18.4 million (2023: EUR 44.3
million), disbursements at EUR 23.9 million (2023: EUR 18.2
million). We held equity in 50 partners in 28 countries:
EUR 101.1 million (65.3% of the equity portfolio) in financial
inclusion; EUR 29.8 million (19.3% of equity) in agriculture;
EUR 21.9 million (14.2%) in renewable energy; and EUR
1.9 million (1.2%) in other sectors. 23.1% of our equity
investments were in Africa, 38.5% in Asia, 28.0% in Latin
America and the Caribbean, and 10.4% in other regions.
Equity made a very strong contribution to income
generation in 2024, with record dividends, strong
investment activity and exits with significant capital gains.
Dividend income was EUR 7.5 million (63.1% up from
EUR 4.6 million in 2023), and income from exits EUR 9.0
million. Notable equity sales included full divestment from
Banrural (Guatemala), after supporting the bank to become
a key enabler of financial inclusion across the country, and
from Ivoire Coton (Côte d’Ivoire), having added significant
strategic and social value, and a partial exit from
Annapurna (India).

18 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Selling some financially weak equity holdings created
space for new investments such as in Altum Credo and
Sindhuja (both in India). We also supported existing equity
partners such as Djamo (Côte d’Ivoire) and Solar Panda
(operating in Kenya) with additional capital.
As an example of value-add, TIME magazine recognised
our Ghanaian equity partner Farmerline’s AI-powered
regenerative farming mentor app as one of the ‘best
inventions of 2024’.
The ESG performance scores of our more recent equity
investee partners have risen by an average of 8% in the
last two years. Two equity partners – Enlace (El Salvador)
for the second year and Financiera FDL (Nicaragua) for the
first time – participated in the 2024 Client Self-Perception
Survey. On balance, we are shifting the equity portfolio
towards more community-focused and innovative
investments.

Portfolio quality and portfolio at risk
Portfolio quality is a matter of concern and increased
attention. The portfolio at risk (PAR 90) ratio – the
percentage of loans with payments more than 90 days
overdue – deteriorated from 5.8% to 8.3%, exceeding our
target threshold. This was due mainly to rising PAR 90 in
agriculture (29.1%, up from 20.0% in 2023) and in financial
inclusion (4.5%, up from 2.7%). In response we have
intensified portfolio monitoring, stepped up partner visits
and been more selective in onboarding new partners.
PAR 90 in renewable energy declined from 10.0% to 0.1%.

Local currency loans
In 2024 local currency loans comprised EUR 437.7 million
or 46.0% of our total credit portfolio (2023: EUR 419.5
million, 44.9%), with the remaining EUR 513.7 million
(54.0%) in hard currencies (2023: EUR 515.6 million, 55.1%).
Local currency lending helps protect partners from
exchange rate volatility and devaluation risk, which we
mitigate for the cooperative by hedging. Some partners
prefer US dollar loans, to match their US dollar revenues.
Appreciation of the US dollar following the US presidential
election had a positive effect on the value of our portfolio,
since we hold much of it in dollars and dollar-linked
currencies.

Partner perception survey
In 2024 Oikocredit received the results of a partner
perception survey undertaken for us by an independent
social and brand research institute early in the year.
Based on online questionnaire responses from 139 credit
and equity partners, plus 13 in-depth interviews with
current partners and four with ex-partners, the survey
found that partners mainly value our support to bridge
funding gaps or expand their services. Respondents
were aware of Oikocredit’s activities mainly through
professional networks.
Most partners indicated they had a good understanding of
our financial products and were highly satisfied with both
the products and their interactions with our staff. Some
partners expressed the wish for more in-person visits
and meetings. For most, Oikocredit’s mission and values

are clear; they identified with our values and perceived
our cooperative as honest, transparent, and providing
solid and reliable services. Agility of service, adaptation to
partners’ needs, capacity building and technical assistance
were mentioned as areas for improvement. Most partners
were determined or open to continue working with us in
the future.

Social and environmental performance management
Oikocredit achieves social and environmental impact
through the work of its partner organisations. Therefore,
we are committed to supporting our partners’ sustainable
performance management. For us this begins with our
exclusion list of harmful activities that we will not finance.
We published a revised list in 2024 in which we more
clearly defined our exclusion criteria for fossil fuels.
We use environmental, social and governance (ESG)
scorecards to initially select which partners to work with
and subsequently to monitor, support and help them
improve their performance and social impact. We apply
tailored scorecards to each of our focus sectors – financial
inclusion, agriculture and renewable energy – and in 2024
we pilot-tested a revised scorecard for agriculture partners.

ESG score classification financial inclusion
Partners approved for financing

7%
14%

7%

41%
70%
90%
28%
14%
21%
5%
1%

3%

2023*

2024

Below average

Average

Strong

Excellent

* Percentages do not total 100% due to rounding.

ESG score classification agriculture

Partners approved for financing
With our support, partners’ ESG scores generally improve
over time. During the past year 40% of our active partners
improved their ESG scores. In 2024 we piloted a new
approach to support equity partners in raising their
ESG performance.
The annual Client Self-Perception Survey is also an
important element in our cooperative’s support for
partners’ sustainable performance. The online survey
programme, which we undertake jointly with partners
that want to participate, asks partners’ clients about
significant changes in their lives over the past 12 months.
The survey is refined each year and individually tailored
to include each partners’ products and services. In 2024
we published our third survey report. This was based
on responses in nine languages from more than 40,000
clients (over three-quarters of them women) of 34 financial
inclusion partners in 15 countries in Africa, Asia, and Latin
America and the Caribbean.
Our surveys demonstrate to clients the care with which we
aim to serve them, and they generate a wealth of insights
and social data, covering important developments relating
to income, livelihoods, household savings, and access to
basic facilities and services.
In undertaking the fourth client survey in 2024, we
worked with 46 partners, of which 38 completed the
survey by year-end. The programme expanded into
French-speaking Africa and the renewable energy sector,
gathering responses in 10 languages and four dialects
from more than 48,000 clients in 18 countries. The findings
(not yet reported in detail) indicate that partners’ clients
who are business owners are likely to have seen their
incomes grow – although, paradoxically, clients also
increasingly experience income disruption from extreme
weather events. Renewable electricity is proving effective
in enabling children to study after dusk; and financial

27%

35%

67%

59%

7%

6%

2023

2024

Average

Strong

Excellent

ESG score classification renewable energy
Partners approved for financing

40%

40%

60%

60%

2023

2024

Strong

Excellent

Managing Board report 19

inclusion partners’ products and services help foster
resilience.
The survey findings help Oikocredit and our partners
understand clients’ needs, opportunities and risks and
inform our decision-making and capacity building to serve
clients better. Based on survey outcomes, partners in
Southeast Asia have requested and received environmental
performance management and disaster preparedness
training. Several partners have introduced new loan
products and non-financial services such as financial
literacy training, or have improved their client services
in other ways, consequent to the survey findings.
Seeing the evident value of our client surveys in providing
data that supports decision-making, some like-minded
investors have expressed interest in working with us on
future surveys.
We also publish an annual Impact Report based on data
we gather from partners and on our own performance, and
showing how our work contributes to the United Nations
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The latest report,
published in 2024, demonstrates our impact through our
partnerships in 2023. Highlights include our partners’
supporting financial inclusion for 53 million people
(10 million more than the previous year), and that most
people we served were women (87%) and based in rural
areas (65%). Our partners reached approximately 4.29
million micro, small and medium enterprises; 89% of
agriculture partners offered environmental awareness
training; and our renewable energy portfolio brought clean
energy to 170,000 households and avoided a total of
422,564 tonnes of CO2 emissions.
In our sustainable performance management, we seek
digital innovations that can enhance our data-driven
approach and have automated reporting dashboards for
the Client Self-Perception Survey. We are open to new
strategic collaborations and working closely with a partner
university on online training modules to enhance partners’
data-driven decision-making.
Together with leading financial inclusion sector actors,
we continue to stress the importance of human rights and
client protection. We promote the Universal Standards
for Social and Environmental Performance Management
and the client protection pathway that Cerise+SPTF have
developed with the sector over many years.

sustainability standard (organic farming, sustainable
forestry or fair trade) and 76% practising sustainable
forestry.
Besides avoiding and reducing CO2 emissions through
our investing, we buy FairClimateFund Fairtrade Gold
Standard carbon credits to offset our unavoidable
Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect from generation
of purchased energy) carbon emissions. In 2024 we
offset 891 tonnes of CO2 emissions from 2023. Of these
emissions, 51% came from business travel, 34% from
office fossil fuel energy consumption, 8% from paper use
and 7% from office commuting.
We are moving towards also measuring the carbon
footprint of our financed activities (that is, our Scope 3
emissions). This involves work with the JIM Foundation
to apply its ‘Joint Impact Model’, which many financial
institutions use to provide a proxy for their portfolio
emissions.
Oikocredit has been preparing to meet its first anticipated
deadline for reporting under the European Union’s
Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) in
2026 on the forthcoming financial year (2025). However,
the draft Dutch CSRD implementation regulation
published in June 2024 indicates that the regulator aims
to exclude ‘cooperative legal forms’, which would make
Oikocredit, as a Dutch cooperative, exempt from this
reporting obligation. As we await clarity on when and
how CSRD implementation is likely to be formalised
in the Netherlands, and because of the significant
implementation costs involved, we are reviewing the best
next steps for us. Regardless of the Dutch decision, we
aim to meet our stakeholders’ sustainability information
needs fully in the spirit of the new EU requirements.

Capacity building

Oikocredit’s capacity building supports partners and
potential partners in acquiring new skills, technology and
access to markets, and in strengthening their governance
and their financial and social performance management.
Priority areas are climate change awareness and
adaptation; smallholder farmers and rural livelihoods;
and improving organisations’ readiness for, and access to,
finance.

In relation to the environment, Oikocredit’s sustainability
ambition embraces respect for planetary boundaries.
We are alert to environmental risk in our investments
and continue to focus much of our investing and capacity
building on solutions-focused environmental action.

In 2024 we undertook 64 capacity building initiatives,
approved 33 new initiatives, and provided capacity
building support to 151 current and prospective partners
(compared with 85 in 2023). We invested a total of EUR
1,415,591 in capacity building (2023: EUR 956,631), with
donors contributing EUR 1,127,215 (2023: EUR 765,663)
and the Oikocredit International Support Foundation
EUR 288,376 (2023: EUR 190,968).

Results gathered from partners in 2024 show that close to
38% of financial inclusion partners reporting had provided
‘green loans’ (for renewable energy, energy efficiency,
sustainable and climate-smart agriculture, recycling
and waste management). A little over 96% of agriculture
partners had applied organic farming practices, with 88% of
them certified under at least one internationally recognised

Agriculture received the largest share of our capacity
building spending (56.5%), followed by financial inclusion
(42.6%) and renewable energy (0.9%); regionally we
allocated 63.4% of the funds to Africa, 7.4% to Latin
America and the Caribbean, and 10.7% to Asia. We
estimate that our capacity building reached approximately
185,978 individual clients (including agriculture

20 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

organisations’ farmer members) in 2024, compared with
271,000 in 2023.

Climate change
Climate change increasingly affects our capacity building
practice, especially work with farmer-based organisations
in rural areas. Several trainings for smallholder farmers
were postponed because extreme weather made roads
impassable. Use of digital platforms for training can
sometimes address this challenge, but it is not always an
effective solution. Climate change is also increasing the
prevalence of plant diseases and soil management issues
affecting our partners’ farmer clients and cooperative
members, and we seek ways to increase our support in
these areas.

Key initiatives and partnerships
Notable among Oikocredit’s capacity building initiatives in
the past year has been our partnership with Agri Evolve
in Uganda, which began in 2023. This joint project aims to
improve access to Rainforest Alliance certification, digital
supply chains, and fair and transparent prices for 10,000
smallholder coffee growers, most of them women. It involves
local-language training in financial literacy, integrated pest
management, and soil and water conservation. The project
has to date supported thousands of farmers in obtaining
certification and with training, and we expect it to help farmer
households significantly raise their income.
Another project, with our equity and agritech partner
Farmerline in West Africa, also works with previously
economically excluded smallholder farmers. Co-financed by
the Smallholder Safety Net Upscaling Programme (SSNUP),
the project is expanding Farmerline’s services from Ghana
into Benin, Côte d’Ivoire and Togo. It has to date provided
tens of thousands of producers (over a third of them women)
via their mobile phones with on-demand information on
climate-smart practices, market prices, marketplace services
and local weather. This supports them in managing their farm
businesses sustainably and profitably. The World Economic
Forum has recognised Farmerline as one of seven ‘African
Technology Pioneers’.
We have collaborated with Kenya Women Microfinance Bank
and Strathmore University Business School in Nairobi to
address the issue of succession in Kenyan (and one Ugandan)
family-run small and medium enterprises (SMEs). Because
many such businesses fail to survive beyond their founders,
our project aimed to help prepare 17 selected SMEs for
transitioning to the next generation and to professionalise,
thereby enhancing their financial sustainability and
investability. With African Guarantee Fund and SSNUP cofunding, the project involved a short course on Strathmore
University’s family business executive programme and six
months of coaching including on-site sessions.
We continue to implement the AgriGRADE pilot project
(our partnership with Agriterra, IDH, IDH Farmfit Fund
and SCOPEinsight), which supports smallholder farmer
cooperatives in Tanzania. In selecting and working with
45 such farmer organisations, the project aims to improve
food security, trade and local economic value addition.

It graduates cooperatives though technical assistance towards
higher levels of professionalism and efficiency, strengthening
their value chains and increasing their access to finance.
SSNUP supports the project.
In Guatemala we have implemented Q’uch, a year-long
initiative with our partners Solidaridad and Lendahand.
Named from the Indigenous Maya K’iché word for cooperation
and reciprocity, the project assisted small agricultural
enterprises in accessing finance and tackling sustainability and
climate change issues. Q’uch mobilised capital for agricultural
producers, food processors and marketing enterprises and
helped business support organisations share innovative
climate-smart models, with a focus on mutual value creation
with communities. USAID’s Guatemala Entrepreneurship
Development Initiative and the Aspen Network of
Development Entrepreneurs co-funded the initiative, which
promoted organic farming, agroforestry, renewable energy
use, water conservation and waste reduction, used digital
tools, and emphasised women’s and youth leadership.
Besides the donors and strategic partners mentioned above,
in 2024 we also worked on capacity building with the support
of Alongside Hope (the former Primate’s World Relief and
Development Fund of the Anglican Church), Oikocredit Stiftung
Deutschland and We Effect.

Members, investors and capital raising

Oikocredit’s cooperative members and non-member investors
co-finance our work by purchasing participations. With their
funds entrusted to us, we provide partner organisations with
loans, equity investments and capacity building to support
lower-income people and communities in our focus countries
to improve their lives, livelihoods and collective resilience.

Operational model
In 2024, following implementation of our new capitalraising model in 2023, we introduced a new operating
structure to handle our marketing to, and the flow of capital
from, members and investors. This has involved a major
reorganisation of our marketing, sales and investor support
functions to standardise and optimise the work. As part of this
reorganisation, we have created dedicated teams to support
institutional investors and individual (retail) investors. We
intend these changes to make the conversion of prospective
investors into actual investors more seamless and effective.
Meanwhile, the support associations are refocusing their role
on public awareness raising and on community building among
our members and investors (see below).

Members and investors
Member and investor numbers have continued to decrease,
mainly for the reasons given below. The cooperative’s total
number of member organisations reduced in 2024 from 490
to 222. We were, however, delighted to welcome one new
member, the Evangelical Church in the Rhineland (Germany).
Redemptions resulted in a fall in member and investor
numbers from 48,182 to 46,361 (35,729 individuals,
6,240 families and 4,392 organisations).

Managing Board report 21

Member capital and development financing
As at 31 December 2024
1,300
Development financing
approved

1,200
1,100

Development financing
outstanding

1,000
900

Even so, we much appreciate the large number of
organisations, families and individuals who continue to
comprise our loyal member and investor base. They
include churches, church-related organisations, NGOs and
foundations that in numerous cases combine their investing
with active promotion of our work.

Member capital

800
700
600
500
400

We report every quarter to members, investors and other
stakeholders on our strategy implementation, our financial
and social performance (unaudited), and organisational
matters.

200
100
0
20
0
20 4
0
20 5
0
20 6
0
20 7
0
20 8
0
20 9
1
20 0
1
20 1
1
20 2
1
20 3
14
20
1
20 5
1
20 6
1
20 7
1
20 8
1
20 9
2
20 0
2
20 1
2
20 2
23
20
24

€ millions

300

Number of investors
Top five countries as at 31 December 2024
23.6

Investors x 1,000

8.7

6.0
2.9

1.5

Germany Netherlands Austria Switzerland France

Five countries with highest member capital
Top five countries as at 31 December 2024
500

165
€ millions

Reasons for the reduction in numbers include mergers
of some smaller congregations and churches and the
enhancement of our ‘know your customer’ and antimoney-laundering measures, requiring us to have more
documentation on each member or investor. In some cases,
we have been unable to reach members and investors,
or they did not respond or want to comply.

117

98

31

Germany Netherlands Austria Switzerland France

Number of members per region
As at 31 December 2024
133

22
Western
Europe

27

18

19

3

Africa
Asia,
Latin
North
Central
and the Australia America America
and
Middle and the
& the
Eastern
East
Pacific Caribbean
Europe

22 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Members’ Meeting and Annual General Meeting
Oikocredit held our Members’ Meeting and 48th Annual
General Meeting (AGM) in hybrid form – in person in San José,
Costa Rica, and online – on 6 and 7 June respectively. About
60 participating member representatives received updates on
the cooperative’s activities and financial performance over
the past year, approved the annual accounts, agreed to the
proposed dividend payment of 0.5% for 2023, and voted on
new appointments to the Supervisory Board and Members’
Council, on amendments to the Articles of Association,
and on other matters.

Members’ Council
The work of the Members’ Council in 2024 is described in
the council’s report starting on page 33.

Capital inflow, redemptions and net asset value
It has not been easy for Oikocredit to raise capital during
the past year. At end-2024 our member and investor capital
totalled EUR 967.0 million, down by 3.4% from EUR 1,000.8
million in 2023. Net inflow of member and investor capital
was thus a negative EUR 33.8 million, up from negative EUR
109.9 million in 2023. We received EUR 29.3 million in gross
inflow and paid EUR 63.1 million in redemptions (2023: EUR
20.5 million and EUR 130.4 million respectively). The countries
with the highest member and investor capital remained,
as in recent years, Germany, the Netherlands, Austria and
Switzerland.
Net asset value per participation fell in 2024 from EUR 214.03
to EUR 211.74.
Besides the loss of some members and investors mentioned
above, rising interest rates have increased the competition
we face in attracting investor funds. In our field of social
development, with government funding faltering due to the
new political reality in many of our markets, we see it as
more important than ever for private money to lead the way.
Yet during uncertain times – not least because of armed
conflicts in the Middle East and Ukraine – many people are
understandably cautious in their investing and tend to choose

more liquid options such as bank savings or investments with
lower perceived risk.
In Germany, where we source much of our capital, we
have also felt the impact of public discussion about the
negative impacts of over-indebtedness on microfinance
clients in Cambodia. Despite Oikocredit’s efforts to support
and implement structural solutions (including a new credit
bureau and grievance mechanism) for Cambodian borrowers,
publicity about this situation has led some German investors
to reconsider their support for our work. In several of our
capital-raising countries, however, such as Austria, France
and Switzerland, we see positive signs that implementation
of our new model is bearing fruit.
Support associations, community building and outreach
Oikocredit’s support associations in Austria, Belgium, France,
Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain and Switzerland, with
their committed volunteers, continue to fulfil a key role in
the life of our cooperative by raising awareness about global
justice issues and promoting our mission in their countries.
In 2024 we ran a successful pilot volunteer programme in
Germany that enabled our volunteers to better communicate
the Oikocredit value proposition.
The support associations’ annual spring and autumn meetings
took place in Bilbao, Spain (combining in-person and online
participation), and online, respectively.
We held a further two Oikocredit Live webinars for members,
investors and others. The first of these events, on ‘Unlocking
Social Equity through Financial Inclusion’, paid special
attention to global gender dynamics and featured the work
of our Dominican Republic partner Mujeres en Desarrollo
Dominicana. The subject of the second webinar was ‘The
Future of Cocoa – Is Sustainable Chocolate Possible?’ with
speakers from the Dominican Republic cocoa cooperatives’
union Conacado and Dutch bean-to-bar chocolate producer
Chocolatemakers.
We organised the first of our new Oikocredit Journeys
in 2024, taking investors to see at first hand the positive
changes their investments contribute to. This journey, to
Peru, involved visits to coffee partner organisations and their
smallholder cooperative members. Participants witnessed
the value to farmers, families and communities of access
to timely finance, technical assistance, improved yields and
quality, reforestation programmes, more resilient coffee plant
varieties, outreach to children and young people, and organic,
Fairtrade and Rainforest Alliance certification.
People who participated in our Peruvian coffee journey
returned home with many insights into coffee supply chains,
the key role of farmer cooperatives, and how the sector
can be made to work better for all concerned. As a result
of the visit, several participants organised local follow-up
events in their own countries to help spread the word about
Oikocredit’s work.
There was also a learning journey to Cambodia to enable
international office and support association staff who

work with investors to better understand the issues there,
especially concerning client indebtedness, and the role of
Oikocredit and our partners.
Jointly with the support associations, we undertook
numerous additional outreach, marketing and media activities
in Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Spain and
Switzerland.
To help Oikocredit re-engage with the World Council of
Churches and its member organisations, Managing Director
Mirjam ‘t Lam visited the WCC in Geneva and held a
conversation with WCC Programme Director Rev. Dr Kenneth
Mtata on our historical relationship, impacts achieved
together and future opportunities.
We have begun to prepare with the associations a new
public education campaign in higher-income countries about
impact investing and other courses of action to create a more
equitable global society. We call this effort Global Learning
for Transformation and Advocacy (GLTA), and our support
associations are engaging with this activity, which in 2025
will focus on action for climate justice, with new energy.

Organisational developments

Amid rapid change in the external environment, Oikocredit’s
mid-term strategy review in 2024 identified the need for
internal organisational, operational and cultural changes
to meet current and future challenges and make the best
of opportunities. We have launched a new internal
programme called Organise to Optimise to facilitate these
changes.

Organise to Optimise
Organise to Optimise aims to create a more sustainable
organisation, and involves reviewing the organisational
structure, our ways of working (becoming more efficient),
behaviours needed to realise change and the building of
competencies. To become more performance and results
driven, we have agreed on a new methodology of objective
setting. We have invested time and energy in boosting training
and people development, including experience exchanges
to upskill our teams, and we have increased opportunities
for reflection and feedback. We are also working on the
cooperative’s leadership development needs.
In our capital raising, we have moved away from a countrybased approach led by the support associations to a more
functional and global methodology under international
office leadership. This involves roles specifically identified
as responsible for corporate communications, investor
relations (both retail and institutions), and so on, and greater
standardisation of materials and resources. People in their
roles may work in different countries or from the Amersfoort
office.
In our impact investing, we are introducing regional partners’
service centres and have established the first in the Latin
America and Caribbean region. Service centres handle routine
administrative tasks, enabling investment officers to spend
more time on relationship building and supporting partners.

Managing Board report 23

Oikocredit staff overview
As at 31 December 2024

Changes such as these can bring new energy and
opportunities to our work, but change can also be unsettling.
We are, however, confident that we can provide the support
needed to individuals and teams within the organisation
through our culture of care.

Division of staff by gender

Our people

41%

Oikocredit considers our people to be our most valuable
resource. We had 280 full-time-equivalent employees at
end-2024, compared to 277 in 2023, of whom 139 worked
outside the Netherlands (2023: 138). We employ people of
47 different nationalities in 28 countries worldwide. At yearend Oikocredit International staff comprised 59% women,
41% men and 0% non-binary, with an average age of 43. The
Executive Committee consisted of 50% women and 50% men.
We have identified no substantial gender pay gaps. Levels of
employee engagement, which we assess via regular surveys,
remain good.

59%

Men

Women

Division of Managing Board by gender

50%

50%

Women

Men

Division of Executive Committee by gender

40%
60%

Men

Women

Division of managers with at least one direct report
by gender

Men

Women

Staff age overview
11%3%

Two new Supervisory Board members were appointed at the
AGM in Costa Rica in June (see Supervisory Board report,
starting on page 27). The Members’ Council had two new
member representatives joining and three departing during
the year (see Members’ Council report, starting on page 33).
We pay careful attention to employees’ mental wellbeing and
have started working with specialist companies to improve
coaching support for staff. We have also implemented a
dashboard to monitor our levels of diversity, equity and
inclusion and have added questions on this area to our
employee engagement survey. We are proud of our very
diverse organisational team and that close to 90% of
employees perceive our culture as inclusive and valuing
diversity.

48%

52%

With 48 new permanent employees joining the organisation
and 45 leaving during the year, staff turnover grew to 16%. At
Managing Board level, we were sorry to lose Gwen van Berne,
our Director of Finance & Risk, who left us at the end of the
year to pursue another career opportunity. The Managing
Director will resume the role of Director of Finance & Risk
ad interim with certain tasks distributed among Executive
Committee members. We also regret that Dave Smit, Director
of Impact Investments, decided to leave Oikocredit, with his
departure set for 1 April 2025. Hans Perk, currently Director
of Specialised Finance & Community Building, will succeed
Dave on an interim basis. Both Gwen and Dave have made
important contributions to the organisation. There were also
changes in the composition of the Executive Committee, as
we describe in the section on ‘Corporate governance’.

We spent an average of EUR 2,000 per employee on training
and development in 2024.

23%

Works Council
39%

20-30

31%

30-40

40-50

50-60

60-67

Oikocredit employs people of 46 different nationalities.

24 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

The cooperative’s Works Council has a positive relationship
with Oikocredit’s boards and the Executive Committee and
supports management very constructively. Regular monthly
meetings for mutual updating have helped keep staff engaged
with the changes taking place. The council periodically
involves our teams in the regions in online meetings with
Amersfoort-based staff.

Systems and operations
Oikocredit has defined an IT strategy that aims to move
the organisation from developing customised services to
leveraging market practices. We have been successful in
setting up data warehouse infrastructure and an integration
platform (interfacing between systems) and have made
major progress in upgrading our implementation of partner
monitoring, a partner portal, and a customer relations
management (CRM) and loan origination system for our
investing.
For public communications and capital raising, we have
developed a new website (replacing the 26 old websites) for
launch in 2025 and are implementing CRM and marketing
capabilities. There has also been notable progress in
modelling the IT architecture, taking control over IT services
in the regions and for support associations, mitigating
cybersecurity risks and moving infrastructure to the cloud.

Risk management

Oikocredit is exposed to a range of risks through the course
of its work, and we continue to monitor adherence to our risk
appetite statement. Important risk areas include credit, IT
and cybersecurity, compliance, reputational, foreign exchange
and liquidity.
We monitor credit risk using our PAR 90 metric (the
percentage of outstanding loans with payments more than
90 days overdue) and take measures to control and reduce
such risk by increasing visits to and intensifying monitoring
of affected partners. In addition, a limit system is in place to
determine the maximum exposure on a country, sector and
instrument level, with ongoing monitoring of these portfolio
exposures. Our portfolio risk committee determines the limits
for the different categories twice a year.
In managing IT and cyber risk, we have reached the desired
level of maturity. Our defence systems were tested and
audited by third parties, who confirmed that protection levels
meet the required standards.
In relation to compliance and reputational risk, as we have
reported since 2023, three NGOs submitted concerns to the
Dutch National Contact Point (NCP) for the OECD Guidelines
for Multinational Enterprises about an instance of noncompliance with the guidelines. This involved Oikocredit’s
lending to microfinance institutions in Cambodia where, the
NGOs argued, client protection was deficient. As we state
above, the NCP’s good offices procedures ended in January
2025 without a fully mediated agreement. But parties found
common ground on three points, including that a grievance
mechanism and fund, which comply with the OECD Guidelines
and the UN Guiding Principles, should be established to
address the problems and adverse impacts.
We have established mandatory online staff compliance
training, including relating to financial crime prevention, data
protection and our code of conduct. As reported elsewhere,
we continue with our ‘know your customer’ and anti-moneylaundering work.

To address foreign exchange risk, we have adopted new
hedging strategies (noted above), and in the case of liquidity
risk we combine continuous monitoring with access to our
revolving credit facility. In both these last two areas we
achieved stable outcomes in 2024.

Taxes

Oikocredit is liable for corporate income tax, mainly in India
and the Netherlands, and to a minor extent in other countries
where we have offices. In the Netherlands, we are liable at
a rate of 25.8%, with a step-up rate of 19% on the first EUR
200,000. After the deduction of interest withholding tax paid
in the countries where we invest, no corporate income tax is
payable in the Netherlands. We recorded EUR 1.2 million as
tax credit in 2024 towards our Indian subsidiary, Maanaveeya,
arising from a tax regulatory change under Indian law.

Looking ahead

Oikocredit’s 50th anniversary in November 2025 will be
a major landmark and cause for celebration. There is
much to be proud of in the way we have helped set the
tone and standards for social impact investing. We will
continue to challenge all to invest responsibly by addressing
socioeconomic, gender, and environment- and climaterelated injustice and inequality with blended solutions in
inclusive finance, smallholder agriculture, renewable energy
and community resilience building, and through our Global
Learning for Transformation and Advocacy programme.
Following the mid-term strategic review, we will modify our
emphasis in both capital raising and impact investing, with
more attention to a digital pathway for investors and to
climate justice respectively. We look forward to developing
new strategic and donor partnerships, particularly in
addressing climate change and in agriculture.
Balancing impact, risk and return successfully to achieve
lasting benefit for partners and clients while providing
members and investors with a positive financial return
will remain our priority. In addressing risks in the external
environment, optimising our organisational structure,
processes and culture to strengthen overall performance
will be a key element.
Oikocredit’s financial outlook remains, as ever, much
influenced by external market developments in the countries
where we invest, which are currently subject to multiple
economic, political and climate challenges. We will maintain
our close monitoring of credit partners’ ability to repay, as
we anticipate that our PAR 90 ratio will remain high. At the
same time, we are alert to investment opportunities, such
as innovative climate-focused projects that contribute to
community resilience.
We do not expect the situation in Bolivia to resolve quickly.
But having absorbed the potential losses in 2024, we do not
foresee further major losses there in 2025.
In impact investments in the coming year, implementation of
the mid-term strategy review will include moving to a model
portfolio approach (to guide decision-making on regions,
sectors and products) and actioning the revised agriculture

Managing Board report 25

investment strategy. We will place greater emphasis on
addressing climate change and community-focused investing,
deepening established strategic partnerships and, where
helpful, blending these themes into larger financing facilities
for financial service partners.
Use of automation to enhance investing efficiency will
increase. We will set up a second regional partner
service centre, in Africa, and complete the winding down
of operations in the Philippines. Maintaining our robust
monitoring of partner performance, we will visit every partner
at least once a year and higher-risk partners twice a year
or more to understand our partners and their challenges,
improve portfolio quality and stay on top of market
developments. To reduce risk, we will increasingly support
current and prospective partners with better performing
and more financially sustainable business models, as well
as expanding our use of blended finance and fundraising
partnerships.

Conclusions

This year’s mid-term strategy review has enabled us to take
careful stock of the way our operating environment has
continued to change and to make important adjustments to
our approach and operating model. We are confident that,
as we implement these modifications, while keeping true to
Oikocredit’s underlying mission and values, our cooperative
and the people and communities we serve have much to gain.
Working for a better world is never easy, but it remains our
firm and lasting commitment.
Amersfoort, 28 March 2025

Mirjam ’t Lam 		
Managing Director
		

				

Dave Smit
Director Impact Investments
		

Patrick Stutvoet
As part of our modified implementation of the 2022-2026
strategy, we will enhance and integrate our attention to social
impact with more emphasis on sustainability outcomes,
including environmental and especially climate issues.
We anticipate more strategic collaborations in these areas.
The coming year will also see publication of our fourth Client
Self-Perception Survey report and a new Impact Report.
In capacity building, the main challenge we face is how to
support our partners effectively in addressing climate change
impacts that increasingly impair agricultural and other rural
livelihoods. This also represents an opportunity if we can
devise and implement appropriate adaptation and mitigation
approaches.
The cooperative will implement new capabilities that support
our capital raising. Our new website will introduce our new
branding to the public. We will implement a digital investor
pathway that allows us to service new, more digitally oriented
investors. We also plan to organise another Oikocredit
Journey for members of our investor community to visit
cocoa producers in West Africa.
With the support associations we will run our first GLTA
campaign with the theme ‘Invest in Climate Action’.
Under the Organise to Optimise programme we will continue
building a more sustainable organisation and enhancing
our capabilities, including establishing a training library. We
will improve our human resources efficiency with new tools
and systems, while attending to our people’s wellbeing and
building a more performance- and results-driven mindset.
We will evaluate our current IT strategy and look at
implementing reliable frameworks for the application of
AI technology.

26 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Director Inflow and Business Enablers

Supervisory Board report

Layla Oliveira manages the Ivaiporã branch of
Cresol Tenente Portela in Brazil, an Oikocredit partner.
Cresol Tenente Portela is part of the Cresol cooperative group,
which is one of the largest in the country. Cresol Tenente Portela
alone has 11,000 members, while more than 225,000 households
are Cresol members across 17 Brazilian states.
Cresol and its affiliated cooperatives provide personalised financial products
and services to benefit members’ businesses and communities. Cresol Tenente
Portela’s recent loan approved by Oikocredit will help it meet growing demand
for working capital among small and medium enterprises and farming families.

Supervisory Board report 27

Providing effective
oversight and guidance
Oikocredit International’s Supervisory Board
oversees the cooperative, including the Managing
Board and Executive Committee. The board
represents different continents with a balance
of expertise, gender and geographical areas.
Members of the Supervisory Board are elected
for an initial term and eligible for re-election for
a further term. The roles of Oikocredit’s three
governance bodies are described in the section
on ‘Corporate governance’ starting on page 5.

Key discussions and decisions in 2024
Statutory annual financial approvals
While many fundamentals remained stable, 2024 was
a challenging year for Oikocredit. The previous year’s
financial results (2023) were less favourable than originally
forecast as a result of a range of factors. The Supervisory
Board discussed the 2023 auditors’ report with external
auditors KPMG, approved the 2023 financial statements,
finalised its chapter of the cooperative’s Annual Report
2023, and endorsed management’s proposal of an
annual members’ and investors’ dividend of 0.5%.

Long-term financial sustainability
On several occasions, the Supervisory Board and Managing
Board discussed the long-term financial sustainability of
the organisation, and the necessity of reducing operating
expenses and overheads, driving down the costs of risk,
and increasing productivity while investing in technology
and systems supporting Oikocredit’s 2022-2026 strategy.
Given challenges in capital raising under current market
conditions, we agreed on the necessity to lower costs and
to generate higher impact with the current capital base.

Risk management, portfolio quality and liquidity
Exceptional macroeconomic events in 2024 had an impact
on partners, especially in Bolivia, requiring substantial
additions to loan loss provisions, which surpassed internal
thresholds. This prevented the Managing Board from meeting
the result targets the Supervisory Board had approved.
The board approved the resulting target deviations and
a new process for addressing deviations from budget.
The Supervisory Board also approved Oikocredit’s
updated risk charter, including risk appetite, to address
ongoing risks. And it approved the modification and
extension of the cooperative’s revolving bank credit
facility to secure appropriate liquidity levels.

Operating model
The Supervisory Board approved changes to Oikocredit’s
operating model proposed by the Managing Board.

28 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Initial modifications in capital-raising operations
aimed to focus and streamline member and investor
engagement and support services, and to improve IT
capacity. The board approved the establishment of
regional partner service centres for administrative
support aimed at improving monitoring, sustaining
portfolio quality, and equipping investment officers
and managers for data-based decision-making.

Articles of Association
The Supervisory Board approved amendments to
Oikocredit’s Articles. These included changes to voting
rights, with the allocation of additional votes to support
associations according to the number of participants in
the different countries where associations are based;
and modifications to Supervisory Board terms of
office, extended from three to four years in alignment
with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code.

Mid-term review of strategy
In advance of the cooperative’s mid-term strategy review,
the Supervisory Board discussed progress on strategy
with the Managing Board, including: achievements and
insights to date; focus areas (including the maturing financial
inclusion sector, agriculture, climate, and small and medium
enterprise financing); focus countries; Oikocredit’s allied
services and value proposition; capital raising and the
member and investor base; company hygiene; and operating
costs. The Managing Board provided insight into financial
challenges relating to preparation of the 2025 budget.
The Supervisory Board approved the Executive Committee’s
mid-term review of the strategy and its intention to
develop a model impact investment portfolio overall and
at regional and sector level that balances impact, risk and
return while achieving modest portfolio growth; to build
impactful partnerships; to consolidate and transform the
member and investor capital base while achieving modest
capital growth; to transition from social performance to
sustainable impact management that includes social and
climate justice and sustainable supply chains; and to ensure
IT and data management systems are fit for purpose.

Leadership model and organisational culture
The Supervisory Board held extensive discussions with
the Managing Director and Managing Board regarding
Oikocredit’s leadership model, working together to identify
the leadership structures and cultures necessary to
deliver Oikocredit’s strategy. Considering concerns around
capital raising and portfolio quality, we gave particular
attention to these aspects and to risk management.

The board discussed with the Managing Board
strengthening the cooperative’s organisational culture and
performance management, with the objective of ensuring
staff wellbeing and cementing within the organisation a
performance-based culture focused on mission delivery.

Planning for 2025
The Supervisory Board approved the cooperative’s
budget for 2025 and encouraged the Managing
Board to be ambitious in setting targets for capital
raising, development financing and overall results.
The board discussed with the Managing Board its 2025
objectives and approved implementation of a new
methodology for monitoring progress on strategy and
for translating the strategy into clear objectives and
key results (OKRs) at Managing Board level that will be
communicated and cascaded throughout the organisation.
The OKRs replace the balance scorecard methodology
used previously to define and monitor the Managing Board’s
achievement of collective organisational objectives.

Managing Board performance
As the Managing Board’s formal employer, the Supervisory
Board carried out annual performance evaluations,
approving recommendations made by its Remuneration,
Nomination and Selection Committee (RNSC). Going forward,
OKRs (see above) will serve as a basis for establishing a
limited set of key performance indicators, agreed upon
by both boards, for the RNSC and Supervisory Board to
apply in Managing Board performance management.

Change in Managing Board composition
The Supervisory Board received with regret the resignation
of Gwen van Berne, Director of Finance & Risk, effective
1 January 2025, to pursue a new career opportunity,
and agreed for the Managing Director to take the role
ad interim with specific tasks divided among Executive
Committee members. The board also regrets the decision
of Dave Smit, Director of Impact Investments, to leave
Oikocredit on 1 April 2025 and has agreed to appoint
Hans Perk, currently Director of Specialised Finance &
Community Building, to succeed him on an interim basis.

Maanaveeya strategy
Following discussions throughout the year and a
strategic review conducted by the Executive Committee,
the Supervisory Board supported the Executive
Committee’s decisions in relation to Maanaveeya,
Oikocredit’s wholly owned Indian subsidiary. These
decisions concerned Maanaveeya’s business strategy
and the sectors in which it is active.

Other topics discussed
2024 Impact Report
The Supervisory Board took note of and celebrated
successes Oikocredit achieved in impact, as reported
in the cooperative’s Impact Report 2024. These include
the expansion of the Client Self-Perception Survey and
capacity building focused on partners’ governance, internal
management, and social and environmental performance,

as week as the development of appropriate and innovative
products and services aligned with clients’ needs.

Cooperative identity
A steering committee comprising the Managing Director
and the chairs of the Members’ Council and Supervisory
Board launched a cooperative-wide discussion intended
to gather and align views among members on issues
related to Oikocredit’s cooperative identity. In particular,
the process concerns cooperative governance and
members’ and investors’ engagement, benefits and
obligations. The Supervisory Board has been kept informed
about this process and will engage further in 2025.

Customer due diligence and regulatory compliance
Following the substantial change in the capital-raising model
in 2023, investors previously investing in Oikocredit through
support associations or the former Oikocredit International
Share Foundation now invest directly through the purchase
of participations. Oikocredit International is now responsible
for customer due diligence, risk assessment, and fiscal
and anti-money-laundering monitoring and reporting on
all incoming investment. The Supervisory Board follows
the process closely to ensure regulatory compliance.

Agriculture strategy
Oikocredit’s partners in the agricultural sector face
difficulties because of factors such as seasonality,
price risk and climate change. With PAR (portfolio at
risk) levels in the agriculture sector especially high,
the Executive Committee has begun to review the
cooperative’s agriculture strategy, seeking the proper
balance of risk, return and impact. The Supervisory
Board receives regular updates on the agriculture
portfolio’s performance and the progress of the strategic
review of the sector, which will conclude in Q1 2025.

Equity strategy
The Impact Investments and Innovation Committee (IIIC)
discussed the performance and recalibration of Oikocredit’s
equity portfolio with the Executive Committee and
shared these discussions with the Supervisory Board.

Cambodia
The Supervisory Board receives quarterly updates on the
status of financial inclusion in Cambodia and the mediation
process initiated by three NGOs at the Dutch National
Contact Point for the OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises on Responsible Business Conduct. The
board has also followed Oikocredit’s development of a
grievance mechanism for partners’ clients in Cambodia.

Cooperative membership
The Supervisory Board confirmed support for the
admission of one new cooperative member and the
readmission of one returning member.

Board composition and meetings

The June 2024 Annual General Meeting (AGM)
reappointed Gaston Aussems to the Supervisory
Board for a second term and appointed Karen Tsang
and Georg Schürmann each for a first term.

Supervisory Board report 29

Members of the Supervisory Board

for Transformation and Advocacy work during the
support associations’ autumn meeting in September.

At 31 December 2024
Name		
Appointed
Cheryl Jackson
June 2019
(Chair)
Charity Chanda Lumpa June 2022
(Vice Chair)
Gaston Aussems
June 2021
Myrtille Danse
June 2019
Andries Doets
June 2022
Lilit Gharayan
June 2022
Francisco Olivares
June 2022
Arpita Pal Agrawal
June 2022
Georg Schürmann
June 2024
Karen Tsang
June 2024

Term ends
June 2025 (2nd term)
June 2025 (1st term)
June 2027 (2nd term)
June 2025 (2nd term)
June 2025 (1st term)
June 2025 (1st term)
June 2025 (1st term)
June 2025 (1st term)
June 2027 (1st term)
June 2027 (1st term)

Meetings
In 2024 the Supervisory Board met online in February,
March (two days), April (two days), June, September
(three days) and December (three days, including a
mid-term 2022-2026 strategy review presentation by
the Executive Committee); and in person in June (two
days) and September (two days), including an annual
joint strategy session with the Managing Board).
The main matters discussed and decided upon were those
reported above. Managing Board members are generally
present at the Supervisory Board’s quarterly meetings.

Attendance at Supervisory Board meetings in 2024
Supervisory Board members 2024
Meeting attendance (days)
Cheryl Jackson (Chair) 		
14/14
Charity Chanda Lumpa (Vice Chair)
12/14
Gaston Aussems			 14/14
Myrtille Danse			 13/14
Andries Doets			 12/14
Lilit Gharayan			 14/14
Francisco Olivares			 12/14
Arpita Pal Agrawal			 14/14
Georg Schürmann (appointed in June 2024) 5/6
Karen Tsang (appointed in June 2024)
6/6

In October the RNSC and Supervisory Board chairs met
Members’ Council representatives to discuss the 2025
board nominations. In both October and December, the
board chair, the Members’ Council chair and the Managing
Director, in their capacity as the steering committee of the
cooperative identity project, met the project support team.
The board chair participated in November in the members’
webinar on the Q3 results and on the departure of the
Director of Finance & Risk.

Meetings with the Works Council
In March the Supervisory Board and RNSC chairs
met Works Council representatives to discuss the
2024 board nominations. In April the board met the
Works Council to discuss staff turnover and wellbeing
and the cooperative’s leadership. The board and
RNSC chairs met Works Council representatives in
October to discuss the 2025 board nominations.

Board committees

The Supervisory Board’s committees assist it in the
execution of its duties. The board assigns responsibility
to the committees to consider delegated matters in
depth and to report and make recommendations to
the full board. The board discusses committee reports
and recommendations in closed sessions to come to
informed decisions efficiently and to identify matters
requiring further discussion with the Managing Board.
In 2024 the board had four committees. Three committees
remained unchanged from 2023: the Audit, Risk and
Compliance Committee (ARCC), the Impact Investments
and Innovation Committee (IIIC), and the Remuneration,
Nomination and Selection Committee (RNSC). The fourth
committee, the Capital Inflow Committee (CIC), became
the Member and Investor Engagement Committee (MIEC) in
March 2024 following expansion of its mandate to include
topics related to cooperative governance and membership.
Committee composition is determined on an expertise basis.

Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee (ARCC)

The Supervisory Board and RNSC chairs met members’
representatives in February to discuss board
nominations. The board chair met in April with the
Managing Director and the Members’ Council chair
to discuss the cooperative identity project. Board
representatives were present at the members’ webinar
in May launching the cooperative identity project and at
the initial meeting of the core project team in August.

The ARCC is a vital component of the Supervisory
Board’s oversight activities, assisting the board in fulfilling
its oversight responsibilities regarding the integrity
of the financial statements and the effectiveness of
internal controls. The committee monitors and oversees
the financial and risk reporting processes, internal
control systems established by management, internal
and external audit processes, and the process for
monitoring compliance with laws and regulations. The
ARCC also supports the board in monitoring realisation
of the strategic financial targets and the Managing
Board’s maintenance of sound risk management
practices. The committee met four times in 2024.

Board representatives attended the Members’ Meeting
during AGM week in June. The board chair was also
present at sessions on Oikocredit’s Global Learning

Financial oversight and integrity. In 2024 the committee
closely monitored financial performance, with particular
attention to the effects of economic instability in countries

Meetings with cooperative members,
support associations and Members’ Council

30 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

such as Bolivia, which caused significant provisioning
for loan losses. The ARCC discussed with management
enhanced partner engagement and prudent financial
forecasting to effectively navigate uncertainties.
The committee discussed with management its
proposed 2025 budget as well as key objectives
and results and agreed upon recommendations
prior to approval by the full Supervisory Board.
Internal controls and risk management. The ARCC
continued to assess and refine internal controls to
ensure their robustness in the face of operational and
financial complexities. The committee endorsed proactive
risk management practices, emphasising structural
credit monitoring while addressing portfolio risks. The
committee reviewed the impact of measures such as
increasing loan loss provisioning and on-site partner
assessments to ensure responsiveness to evolving risks.
The ARCC maintained its oversight of liquidity and
capital management, observing that liquidity buffer
ratios continued to demonstrate improvement within
established internal thresholds, thereby reflecting
the effectiveness of portfolio adjustments.
Compliance and strategic oversight. The ARCC oversaw
compliance with legal and regulatory frameworks
and supported efforts to align operational practices
with strategic financial goals. It noted significant ESG
(environmental, social and governance) achievements,
with partners’ average ESG scores improving across
approved investments in the second half of the year, in
alignment with the cooperative’s impact-focused strategy.
Strategically, the ARCC continued to monitor the
realisation of approved targets, including profit levels,
net asset value per participation, the ratio of costs to
assets, risk concentration limits and company hygiene.
Noting significant challenges, the committee endorsed
management’s steps to bolster capital inflow and to
maintain portfolio quality. Following the mid-term
strategic review, discussions with management centred
on the objectives and key results proposed for 2025.
Internal audit and external audit reviews. In 2024 internal
and external audits remained a crucial component of
the ARCC’s agenda. Throughout the year, the committee
reviewed audit findings and timely corrective actions with
management. Further, the committee worked closely
with auditors to enhance financial reporting processes,
focusing on areas such as equity impairments and
tax compliance for a robust control environment.

Impact Investments and Innovation Committee (IIIC)
The primary function of the IIIC is to assist the Supervisory
Board with its oversight and advisory responsibilities
in relation to the cooperative’s development finance
portfolio and its social impact and innovation objectives.
In 2024 the committee met four times, once every quarter,
via video conference. In addition, an in-person meeting on

the updated portfolio concentration limits was held during
the AGM week in June with the Director of Finance & Risk.
Throughout the year, the committee discussed impact
investing portfolio developments, highlighting the
quality of the portfolio by sectors and regions and
its growth versus the 2024 goal, while monitoring
other key performance indicators on the execution
of the cooperative’s investment strategy.
At specific quarterly meetings, discussions also centred on
topics such as: results of the 2023 Client Self-Perception
Survey and improvements for 2024; results of the 2023
Impact Report and the impact research agenda for 2024;
updates on the equity and agriculture investing strategies;
the review of the outflow organisational structure towards
a more sustainable business model; and the strategic
plans for Oikocredit’s Indian subsidiary Maanaveeya.

Capital Inflow Committee (CIC)/Member and
Investor Engagement Committee (MIEC)
The CIC (until March 2024) and subsequently MIEC (from
March 2024) has a mandate to assist the Supervisory
Board in fulfilling its oversight and advisory responsibilities
in relation to Oikocredit’s capital-raising model and
strategy; global learning activities; the corporate
governance structure of the cooperative; roles, rights
and responsibilities of cooperative members; and
management’s relationship with cooperative members.
In 2024, the committee met four times. It monitored
evolution of member and investor capital, paying particular
attention to the redemption of participations. It reviewed
the reorganization of the capital- raising strategy and
operations with the Director of Inflow & Business Enablers
and the Director of Investor Relations & Capital Raising,
and it discussed with them change initiatives related to
optimising capital raising, training, IT investor support
and product development necessary to support capital
raising.
The MIEC received quarterly updates on all the countries
where the cooperative raises capital, on institutional
fundraising for capacity building, on the costs of raising
capital, and on product and market development. It was
kept informed about implementation of the capital-raising
model in the Netherlands. And it made recommendations
to the Supervisory Board regarding the members’ AGM
and the admission of new members to the cooperative.

Remuneration, Nomination and Selection Committee
(RNSC)
The RNSC oversees the alignment of Oikocredit’s
policies and practices with its mission, vision and
values. The committee also advises the Supervisory
Board with respect to culture and human resources
management, the appointment, appraisal, development,
dismissal, succession and remuneration of Managing
Board members, and the nomination, assessment,
development, succession and remuneration of
Supervisory Board candidates. It met six times in 2024.

Supervisory Board report 31

Leadership model and organisational restructuring. The RNSC
together with the Managing Director prepared discussions
within the Supervisory Board on revising the leadership model
to better position the organisation for the future. Key priorities
discussed included clarifying responsibilities, enhancing
accountability, fostering collaboration, accelerating decisionmaking, and emphasising strategically important themes to
improve efficiency and effectiveness. In addressing interim
changes, the committee supported temporarily redistributing
responsibilities among current Managing Board members
following the resignation of the Director of Finance & Risk.
Human resources (HR) and organisational culture. Quarterly
HR reports identified persistent challenges such as
absenteeism and burnout, particularly in European offices.
To address these issues, the organisation implemented
coaching platforms and psychological support for affected
employees. The RNSC discussed with management the
importance of fostering a performance-driven culture
through clear goal setting, fair performance evaluations
and incentive alignment. The RNSC reviewed with
management the results of employee engagement surveys
as well as the enhanced communication and engagement
strategies prioritised to address survey findings.
Sustainable operating model. The RNSC recommended
approval of changes to the inflow organisation to secure
sustainable capital generation and align operations with
strategic goals, and changes to the outflow organisation
focused on streamlining operations and optimising
resource allocation, particularly through regional
partner service centres. These measures are expected
to enhance efficiency and improve service delivery.
Assessment of the Managing Board. To advise the Supervisory
Board in its capacity as formal employer of the Managing
Board, the RNSC conducted biannual reviews of Managing
Board members’ performance. Feedback highlighted the need
to support leadership amid heavy workloads and to ensure
the necessary competencies at all levels of the organisation.
The committee decided to maintain the existing remuneration
policy, finding no significant benchmarking discrepancies.
Supervisory Board membership and education. With
two experienced Supervisory Board members, including
the chair, set to step down after their terms expire at
the June 2025 AGM, the RNSC proactively recruited and
nominated two new members. These new appointees,
approved during the 2024 AGM, will benefit from a
full year of mentorship and knowledge transfer from
the outgoing members. Recruitment efforts prioritised
expertise in finance, sustainability and leadership.

visited partners and their clients to observe the practical
impact of Oikocredit’s projects and investments.

Board remuneration

There were no changes to the Supervisory Board’s
remuneration policy in 2024. Board member remuneration
is intended to reflect time spent and responsibilities,
and to enable Oikocredit to recruit and retain board
members with the right balance of experience and
competencies. Board members receive a fixed fee
for their services and reimbursement of travel and
administrative costs involved in serving on the board.
Remuneration may differ per board member according
to distances travelled and specific responsibilities, such
as chairing the board or one of its committees. Board
members may choose not to accept the remuneration.
Note 34 of the financial statements provides further
details about Supervisory Board members’ remuneration
and other Oikocredit remuneration policies.

Looking ahead

In the coming year, the Supervisory Board will continue
to monitor and discuss with the Managing Board
implementation of Oikocredit’s revised strategy;
development finance portfolio growth and quality; the
evolution and composition of member and investor capital;
and effective leadership and an inspired performance
culture that supports the cooperative’s mission.
We foresee both challenges and opportunities in developing
an operating model that effectively manages rising costs,
while continuing to offer partners a range of financial and
non-financial products and services designed to maximise
impact, especially in the context of macroeconomic, political
and environmental instability affecting partners and their
clients, as well as members, investors and other stakeholders.
Additional opportunities lie in Oikocredit’s 50th anniversary
as the occasion to celebrate the impact our cooperative
has achieved to date and to raise visibility around the
organisation’s long-term presence and success. In the
transition from social performance to sustainable impact
management, the Supervisory Board sees an opportunity
to cement Oikocredit’s position as an impact investing
pioneer and leader.
Amersfoort, 28 March 2024

Cheryl Jackson

Charity Chanda Lumpa

Chair			

Vice Chair

Gaston Aussems

Myrtille Danse

To further strengthen the board, a draft permanent
education programme for 2025 was agreed, focusing on
capacity-building topics such as anti-money-laundering,
reputational risk and operations in high-risk countries.

Supervisory Board member

Supervisory Board member

Training

Francisco Olivares

Arpita Pal Agrawal

Supervisory Board member

Supervisory Board member

The Supervisory Board organised one training session
in 2024, in March, on the EU’s Corporate Sustainability
Reporting Directive (CSRD). In Costa Rica in June, board
members, together with Managing Board members,

32 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Andries Doets

Lilit Gharayan

Supervisory Board member

Supervisory Board member

Georg Schürmann

Karen Tsang

Supervisory Board member

Supervisory Board member

Members’ Council report

Grameen Costa Rica is a social microfinance
organisation. Its loans, advice and training enable
women who live on low incomes to start or grow their business.
Kristel Sancho, pictured, says her job as a Grameen sales manager
shows her many dreams coming true as clients improve their lives
and livelihoods and benefit their families and communities.
The Grameen microfinance approach was developed by Bangladeshi economics
professor and Nobel Peace Prize winner Muhammad Yunus in the 1970s. Its main
feature is the provision of small uncollateralised loans to low-income rural women.
Grameen Costa Rica is an Oikocredit partner.

Members’ Council report 33

Co-creating the cooperative
The Members’ Council became one of Oikocredit’s
governance bodies in 2022 and is responsible for
voicing the interests of the cooperative’s members
and facilitating dialogue involving members.
The council’s role in relation to the other
governance bodies is described in the section
on ‘Corporate governance’ starting on page 5.

Roles and responsibilities

The roles and responsibilities of the Members’ Council
are defined in its terms of reference (ToR) as approved
by Oikocredit’s General Meeting and in the cooperative’s
Articles of Association (AoA). These are: to represent and
promote the interest of the members (AoA); to reflect
and defend members’ interests (ToR); to represent the
members in the cooperative structure of Oikocredit and
operate in a governance role as members of a cooperative
society (ToR); to share the members’ views on relevant
matters with the Supervisory Board and Managing
Board and advise accordingly (AoA); and to represent
the members in consultations with both boards (ToR).
The council focuses on Oikocredit’s vision, mission and
values, the international cooperative principles and the
Society’s high-level strategy and policies (ToR). It operates
as a bridge between the members and the two boards (ToR),
acting as a co-creator of the cooperative. It coordinates
meetings of members (other than General Meetings), such as
the Members’ Meeting that took place one day before the
cooperative’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) in June 2024.

Members’ Council representatives
As at 31 December 2024

Name
Anita Clemons
(Chair)
Aglaë Hagg
(Co-Vice Chair)
Malu Padilla
(Co-Vice Chair)
Guido Forsthuber
		
Michelle Lüchinger
		
Peter Ohligschläger
		
Jetti Oliver
Wilfried Steen
		

Nominated by
Presbyterian Church (USA) Foundation
Katholische Sozialakademie Österreichs
Oikocredit Nederland
Fundación Protestante Hora de Obrar –
Argentina
Oikocredit Deutsche Schweiz
Support Association
Oikocredit West German Support Association
(resigned as of 31 December 2024)
Christian Education Council of India (CECI)
Oikocredit Support Association
Niedersachsen-Bremen (Braunschweig)

At the June 2024 Annual General Meeting, Peter Koona
Tefo and Christiane Riffaud left the Members’ Council.
Michelle Lüchinger and Jetti Oliver were appointed
as new council representatives, and Aglaë Hagg was
reappointed. Anita Clemons was elected Chair, and
Aglaë Hagg and Malu Padilla were elected Co-Vice Chairs.

Council composition, committees and
working groups

At the end of 2024, Peter Ohligschläger ended his
term with the Members’ Council. Council members
and everybody at Oikocredit are very grateful to
Peter for his contributions and leadership. The
council vacancy will be filled at the 2025 AGM.

Council composition

Committees and working groups

Members’ Council representatives can serve a maximum of
six years (two terms of three years) on the council. At each
AGM, representatives leaving the council at the end of their
term stand down, and new representatives are elected and/
or those standing again for the council may be re-elected.

The Members’ Council has a Governance Committee
currently comprising the Chair, Anita Clemons, and the
two Vice-Chairs, Aglaë Hagg and Malu Padilla. They
decide on the council’s agenda, guide its action and
ensure it operates efficiently. They meet regularly, at least
once every month, according to the circumstances.

Each council representative must be nominated by a
member organisation of the Oikocredit cooperative. To
achieve a balance, half the representatives are nominated by
support associations and the other half by direct members
(i.e. cooperative members that are not support associations),
and the council aims for a balance between the four
continents and different areas where Oikocredit is active.

34 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

The council has several working groups, which like the
Governance Committee also usually meet monthly.
The working group on visibility and communication
focuses on enhancing visibility and developing a
communication strategy for the council. A working
group of representatives participates in the Supervisory
Board’s nomination and election process, including
consulting, examining profiles and providing input.
And a working group on direct member relations has
developed proposals and a plan for the council.

Governance activity, meetings
and discussions

The Members’ Council prioritises strengthening contacts
with members, understanding their needs, asking how
the council can support them, communicating the
council’s role, and increasing members’ awareness about
Oikocredit’s work as a pioneer in social impact investing.

We took a groundbreaking step in 2024 by directly
contacting members to encourage their participation in
the cooperative, which members much appreciated.
This followed a presentation of our plan to strengthen
contact with direct members at the spring meeting of
the support associations in Bilbao, Spain. Establishing
contact with the right person in each member organisation
requires effort, as does regularly maintaining the
established relationship. Some council representatives also
participated in the support associations’ autumn meeting.
This year the council has worked on enhancing its
visibility, developing a communication strategy and
improving connections with the Supervisory Board
and the Executive Committee. We provided updates
to support associations and participated in the
cooperative’s 50th anniversary working groups.

Looking ahead

The Members’ Council’s mandate continues to be the
representation of the cooperative’s members. A major
challenge is connecting to members and encouraging
them to engage with Oikocredit through webinars and
meetings, including the AGM. The council would like to
see all members proactively use their vote and voice
to deepen their involvement in Oikocredit’s change
agenda and social impact. Council engagement with
members – an ongoing process that takes time – will
yield the best results in the long term and help ensure
that Oikocredit continues investing in people.
The council would like to thank all members for their
support and encouragement over the past year. It is our
shared vision as Oikocredit members that brings us all
together. We expect 2025 to be rich in new developments for
all the cooperative, including the Members’ Council. Not only
will we celebrate collaboration with the support associations
and all active members as part of Oikocredit’s golden
jubilee – we also aim to further intensify our work together.
Members are always more than welcome to address the
council with questions, ideas and active contributions.

Anita Clemons
The Members’ Council, Supervisory Board and Managing
Board collaborated in initiating Oikocredit’s cooperative
identity project. This process aims to understand what
keeps members engaged, what makes them proud
to share our story and what might hold them back
from further involvement. We seek through this open
discussion to ensure that our cooperative continues
to grow and thrive, benefiting members, our partners
and partners’ clients. The chairs of the council and
the two boards currently form the steering committee
for the initiative, providing guidance and oversight.

Chair

Aglaë Hagg
Co-Vice Chair

Malu Padilla
Co-Vice Chair

Also during the year, the council discussed and worked
on other topics including Oikocredit’s annual Members’
Meeting, elections, the brand refresh and investor relations
generally, and developed guidelines for its internal
processes. Updates from the Managing Director and
on the work of its Governance Committee and working
groups are recurrent agenda topics for the council.
The council met 11 times online during the year, in addition
to one in-person meeting in Amersfoort. Several council
representatives were present at the in-person spring meeting
of the support associations in Bilbao and at the AGM and
Members’ Meeting in Costa Rica. The council also organised
two webinars, one on members’ voting rights and another
on the shortlisted candidates for the Supervisory Board.
We met once during the year with the Supervisory Board
and once with the Executive Committee to discuss the
council’s annual plan for 2024-2025.
No training took place for Members’ Council representatives
in 2024.

Member’s Council report 35

36 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Consolidated financial statements

Oikocredit partner Kopsyah BMI is an Indonesian
savings, loans and financing cooperative based in
Tangerang, near Jakarta. Kopsyah follows Syariah (Sharia)
Islamic banking principles and is the largest such
cooperative in Banten province in Java.
Focused mainly on lending to micro enterprises, Kopsyah also supports
member households with water and sanitation loans, house renovation financing,
education loans, business training, university scholarships and profit sharing.
The photograph shows Kopsyah small business client and laundromat owner
Triendah Daryanti talking with branch manager Wahyu Budi Prasetya.

Consolidated financial statements 37

Consolidated balance sheet
(Before appropriation of net income)

Consolidated balance sheet
Notes
FIXED ASSETS

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

7

INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS

4,118

4,134

8

TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS

2,980

3,278

1,105,297
(86,588)
1,018,710

1,084,716
(61,551)
1,023,165

Consists of:
Loans (net of loss provision)
Equity (net of impairments)
Significant influence investment

887,214
129,159
2,337

892,598
130,567
2,927

10

Other securities

13,848

18,743

11

Other financial assets
Total

3,823
1,036,381

8,894
1,050,802

11

Deferred tax assets
Total fixed assets

456
1,043,935

230
1,058,445

CURRENT ASSETS
Receivables and other current assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Total

40,637
62,467
103,103

39,656
58,772
98,428

TOTAL

1,147,039

1,156,873

9

12
13

FINANCIAL ASSETS
Development financing:
Total development financing outstanding
Less: - loss provision and impairments

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

38 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Consolidated balance sheet
(Before appropriation of net income)

Consolidated balance sheet
Notes

14/15
15
15
16
17

GROUP EQUITY AND FUNDS
Member and investor capital
General reserve
Restricted exchange fluctuation
Reserves for subsidised activities
Funds for subsidised activities
Undistributed net income for the year
Total group equity and funds

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

967,023
80,653
(3,814)
2,884
1,244
(8,149)
1,039,841

1,000,786
84,648
(4,351)
2,514
1,340
1,616
1,086,554

202

289

18

PROVISIONS

19

NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES

36,206

18,580

20

CURRENT LIABILITIES

70,790

51,450

1,147,039

1,156,873

TOTAL

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

Consolidated financial statements 39

Consolidated income statement
Consolidated income statement
Notes
INCOME

2024
€ ,000

2023
€ ,000

22

Interest and similar income
Interest on development financing portfolio
Total interest and similar income

94,706
94,706

88,396
88,396

23

Interest and similar income and expenses
Interest income and expenses
Total interest and similar expenses

(6,386)
(6,386)

(1,490)
(1,490)

24
24
24
25

Income from equity investments
Result from sale of equity investments
Dividends
Management fees funds
Result significant influence investments
Total income from equity investments

9,071
7,543
(161)
(686)
15,767

(6,355)
4,624
(128)
759
(1,100)

26

Grant income

1,893

936

27
27
27
27

Other income and expenses
Exchange rate differences
Hedge premiums and provisions
Dividend and sales from other securities
Other
Total other income and expenses

132
(24,594)
482
3,134
(20,846)

(5,506)
(26,263)
4
4,455
(27,310)

TOTAL OPERATING INCOME

85,134

59,431

GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
Personnel
Travel
General and other expenses
TOTAL GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

(26,840)
(1,214)
(17,421)
(45,475)

(24,513)
(1,198)
(18,840)
(44,551)

ADDITIONS TO AND RELEASED FROM LOAN LOSS PROVISIONS AND EQUITY IMPAIRMENTS
Additions to and releases from loan loss provisions
Impairments on equity investments
TOTAL ADDITIONS TO AND RELEASES FROM LOSS PROVISIONS AND IMPAIRMENTS

(41,035)
(6,867)
(47,902)

(14,288)
3,458
(10,830)

INCOME BEFORE TAXATION

(8,243)

4,050

Taxes
INCOME AFTER TAXATION

94
(8,149)

(2,434)
1,616

28
29

30
30

31

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

40 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Consolidated cash flow statement
Consolidated cash flow statement
Notes

9/12
7/8

INCOME BEFORE TAXATION
Interest expenses
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST AND TAXATION
Adjusted for non-cash items
Value adjustments loans, equity and receivables
Depreciation (in)tangible fixed assets

11/12/ Taxes paid
20/31
Exchange rate adjustments

2024
€ ,000

2023
€ ,000

(8,243)
6,386
(1,857)

4,050
1,490
5,540

64,088
1,747

17,788
1,713

102

(2,004)

(28,913)

22,641

9
11
12
18
23
23
20

Changes in
Development financing (disbursements and repayments)
Other financial assets
Receivables and other current assets
Provisions paid
Interest paid
Interest received
Current liabilities
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES

(29,685)
5,063
3,780
(105)
(7,830)
1,444
11,863
19,697

(124,489)
(1,524)
14,519
(69)
(4,275)
2,785
8,585
(58,790)

7
8
8

Investments and divestments from term investments
Investments from intangible assets
Investments from tangible assets
Divestments from tangible assets
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES

(1,340)
(106)
92
(1,354)

(1,028)
(152)
1
(1,179)

Member and investor capital issuance in euro and foreign currencies
Member and investor capital redemptions in euro and foreign currencies
Dividend paid on member and investor capital in euro and foreign currencies
Loans and notes
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES

29,333
(63,138)
(5,241)
23,609
(15,437)

20,490
(130,411)
(5,661)
11,081
(104,501)

CHANGES IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

2,906

(164,470)

Cash and cash equivalents beginning of the year
Exchange rate difference on cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents end of the year
CHANGES IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

58,772
789
62,467
2,906

225,207
(1,965)
58,772
(164,470)

14/45
14/45
19

13

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

Consolidated financial statements 41

Consolidated statement of
comprehensive income
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income

2024
€ ,000

2023
€ ,000

INCOME FOR THE YEAR AFTER ADDITIONS TO AND RELEASES FROM FUNDS
Change in the restricted exchange fluctuation reserve
Change in funds for subsidised activities
Total of direct movements in the group equity and funds

(8,149)
537
(96)
441

1,616
(124)
(482)
(606)

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(7,708)

1,010

Notes

46
16

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

42 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Notes to the consolidated
financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024
These financial statements cover the year 2024, which ended at the balance sheet date of 31 December 2024. The financial
statements contain the financial information of both the Society and the consolidated companies of the Society.
These financial statements are expressed in euro (EUR). As at 31 December 2024, USD 1 equalled EUR 0.9662769
(31 December 2023: USD 1 equalled EUR 0.904077).

1. General information
Description of the organisation
OIKOCREDIT, Ecumenical Development Cooperative Society U.A. (the Society) was established in 1975 in Rotterdam,
the Netherlands, and has corporate status under the laws of the Netherlands. The Society is registered in Amersfoort,
the Netherlands, under number 31020744. The legal address of its registered office is Berkenweg 7, 3818 LA Amersfoort.
The Society is owned by its members throughout the world. Members include churches, subdivisions of churches, councils of
churches, church- related organisations, partners (organisations to which the Society has extended a loan or equity investment)
and support associations established by individuals and local parishes. The Society has an undefined ending date.
Oikocredit’s mission is to challenge all to invest responsibly. It provides financial services and supports organisations to
improve the quality of life of people and communities with low incomes in a sustainable way.
Oikocredit’s vision is a global, just society in which resources are shared sustainably and all people are empowered with the
choices they need to create a life of dignity.
The entities belonging to the Oikocredit group are:
• Oikocredit International Support Foundation (hereafter: Oikocredit International Foundation or Foundation), Amersfoort,
the Netherlands
• Maanaveeya Development & Finance Private Limited, Hyderabad, India
The Oikocredit International Foundation has five board members, four of whom are representatives of the Society and a fifth
independent board member. Therefore this Foundation belongs to the group.
The Society is at the head of the Oikocredit group and has its central office in Amersfoort, the Netherlands.
The regional offices for the outflow market are located in Kenya, Peru and the Philippines. In addition, Oikocredit has offices
in the following countries: Argentina, Brazil, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Guatemala, Mexico and Nigeria. The offices in Brazil,
Costa Rica, Guatemala, Kenya and Nigeria are incorporated as legal entities:
Brasil Assessoria a Consultoria Ltda) – Brazil
Oikocredit Centro Regional de Servicios Ltda – Costa Rica
Oikocredit Servicios para el Dessarallo Sostenible S.A. – Guatemala
Oikocredit Services Kenya Ltd – Kenya Oikocredit Nigeria Ltd – Nigeria
Due to the limited size of the assets of these legal entities, it was decided to regard these assets as if they were branch offices
for accounting purposes.
The offices of Oikocredit for the inflow market are located in Austria, Belgium, France, Germany and Switzerland. All inflow
offices are branches of the Society.

Oikocredit International Foundation (the Foundation)
The Foundation was established in 1995, in Amersfoort, the Netherlands, under the name Oikocredit International Support
Foundation in accordance with Dutch law. The duration of the Foundation is unlimited. The main purpose of the Foundation
is to promote and support the development of low-income people and communities’ capacities on an individual and
organisational basis and to enable them to gain access to necessary resources to help them improve their quality of life.
Consolidated financial statements 43

The Foundation does this, for example, by (i) receiving and providing donations and subsidies, (ii) promoting standards and
best practices that are aimed at the protection and promotion of low-income people and their communities’ well-being and
(iii) providing resources for innovative solutions to the challenges/ needs of low-income people and their communities, with
the potential for scale-up and replication.

Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the statutory provisions of Part 9, Book 2,
of the Netherlands Civil Code and the firm pronouncements in the Guidelines for Annual Reporting in the Netherlands
as issued by the Dutch Accounting Standards Board (Dutch GAAP).
The accounting policies applied for measurement of assets and liabilities and determination of results are based on the
historical cost convention, unless otherwise stated in the accounting principles mentioned in Note 2 below.

Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the financial information of the Society, its group companies and other entities
over which it exercises control or whose central management it conducts. Group companies are entities over which the Society
exercises direct or indirect control based on a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights, or whose financial and
operating policies it has the power to govern. Potential voting rights that can be directly exercised at the balance sheet date
are also taken into account.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared by using uniform accounting policies for measurement and determination
of the results of the group.
Inter-company transactions, profits and balances among group companies and other consolidated entities are eliminated.
Unrealised losses on inter-company transactions are also eliminated. The accounting policies of group companies and other
consolidated entities have been changed where necessary, in order to align them with the prevailing group accounting policies.
Group companies and other entities over which the Society exercises control or whose central management it conducts are
consolidated in full. Minority interests in group equity and group net income are disclosed separately.

Application of Section 402, Book 2, of the Dutch Civil Code
As the income statement of the Society is included in the consolidated financial statements, an abridged income statement has
been disclosed in the Society financial statements in accordance with Section 402, Book 2, of the Netherlands Civil Code.

Going concern
These financial statements have been prepared under the going concern assumption.
Based on the composition of the balance sheet and more specifically the liquidity position, the Society will continue as a going
concern for the foreseeable future and expects to realise its objectives in the normal course of business.

Related parties
All Oikocredit group companies mentioned above under Description of the organisation are considered to be related parties.
The support associations are separate organisations established to support the worldwide work of Oikocredit. The former
Oikocredit International Share Foundation (Share Foundation) was also a separate organisation until its liquidation in 2023.
The Share Foundation was established in 1995, in Amersfoort, the Netherlands, under Dutch law. The Share Foundation was
liquidated on 20 December 2023. The Share Foundation functioned as an administrative office of the Society for the sole
purpose of issuing depository receipts to investors. As of 1 April 2023, the administration of depository receipts ceased as all
former holders of depository receipts became holders of participations issued by the Society.
As the Share Foundation no longer served a purpose, the board of the Share Foundation decided to liquidate the Share Foundation.
Members are also considered to be related parties. Significant transactions with related parties are disclosed in the notes
insofar as they are not transacted at arm’s length. The nature of, extent of and other information about transactions are
disclosed if this is required to provide a true and fair view.

2. Accounting policies for the balance sheet
General information
The financial statements are denominated in euro. In general, assets and liabilities are stated at the amounts at which they
were acquired or incurred, or fair value. If not specifically stated otherwise, they are recognised at the amounts at which they
were acquired or incurred. The balance sheet, income statement and cash flow statement include references to the notes.

44 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Comparative figures
The accounting policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.

Estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with the relevant rules, requires the use of certain critical accounting
estimates. It also requires the Society’s Managing Board to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the group’s
accounting policies. If necessary for the purposes of meeting the requirements under Section 362(1), Book 2, of the
Netherlands Civil Code, the nature of these estimates and judgements, including the related assumptions, is disclosed in the
notes to the financial statement items in question.
In preparing these financial statements, management has made judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the
application of the accounting principles and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results
may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to estimates are recognised prospectively,
e.g. in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected. The areas where
estimates and judgements have the most significant impact are:
• Loan loss provision and
• Impairments on equity investments

Change in accounting estimate
During the year 2024 there were no changes in accounting estimates. In the year 2023 the Society changed the calculation
of the provision on rescheduled partners. Instead of providing a standard % for provisioning, a calculation based on the net
present value of future cashflows is now applied, which is in accordance with the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in
the Netherlands (Dutch GAAP). This change in method resulted in a release of EUR 0.9 million in 2023.

Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies
The financial statements are presented in euro. The euro is the functional and presentation currency of the Society. Foreign
currency transactions in the reporting period are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at
the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange prevailing at the
balance sheet date. Foreign exchange (FX) gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the
translation at year-end exchange rates are recognised in the income statement.
Translation differences on non-monetary assets held at cost are recognised using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of
the transactions.

Foreign operations
Assets and liabilities of consolidated foreign group companies denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate
of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date. Income and expenses are translated at transaction date exchange rates
during the financial year. The cumulative exchange rate differences on investments in foreign group companies are kept in the
restricted exchange fluctuation reserve.

Hedging of the net investment in foreign operations
Currency translation differences arising from the translation of a financial liability considered as a hedge of the net investment
in a foreign group company are directly recognised in equity (in the restricted exchange fluctuation reserve) to the extent that
the hedge is effective. The ineffective part is recognised as an expense in profit and loss.

Assets and liabilities
An asset is recognised in the balance sheet when it is probable that the expected future economic benefits that are
attributable to the asset will flow to the Society and the asset has a cost price or value of which the amount can be measured
reliably. Assets that are not recognised in the balance sheet are considered as off-balance-sheet assets.
A liability is recognised in the balance sheet when it is expected that the settlement of an existing obligation will result in
an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits and the amount necessary to settle this obligation can be measured
reliably. Provisions are included in the liabilities of the Society. Liabilities that are not recognised in the balance sheet are
considered as off-balance-sheet liabilities.

Consolidated financial statements 45

Fixed assets and depreciation
Fixed assets (both tangible and intangible) are stated at cost minus depreciation and impairment. Expenditure for additions,
renewals and improvements (only if it is adding value or if it is extending the lifetime of the asset) are capitalised. Depreciation
is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the respective assets. At each balance-sheet date,
it is established whether there are any indications of fixed assets being subject to impairment. If any such indication exists, the
recoverable amount of the asset is determined. An asset is subject to impairment if its carrying amount exceeds its recoverable
amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use.

Financial instruments
Financial instruments include investments in shares and bonds, trade and other receivables, cash items, loans and other
financing commitments, derivative financial instruments, trade payables and other amounts payable. These financial
statements contain the following financial instruments: financial instruments held for trading (financial assets and liabilities),
loans and receivables (both purchased and issued), equity instruments, other financial liabilities and derivatives.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet at the moment that the contractual risks or rewards with
respect to that financial instrument originate. Financial instruments are derecognised if a transaction results in a considerable
part of the contractual risks or rewards with respect to that financial instrument being transferred to a third party.
Financial instruments (and individual components of financial instruments) are presented in the consolidated financial
statements in accordance with the economic substance of the contractual terms. Presentation of the financial instruments is
based on the individual components of financial instruments as a financial asset, financial liability or equity instrument.
Financial and non-financial contracts may contain terms and conditions that meet the definition of derivative financial
instruments. Such an agreement is separated from the host contract if its economic characteristics and risks are not closely
related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host contract, a separate instrument with the same terms and
conditions as the embedded derivative would meet the definition of a derivative, and the combined instrument is not measured
at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the profit and loss account.
Financial instruments embedded in contracts that are not separated from the host contract are recognised in accordance with
the host contract. Derivatives separated from the host contract are, in accordance with the measurement policy for derivatives
for which no cost price hedge accounting is applied, measured at cost or lower fair value.
Financial instruments are initially measured at fair value, including discount or premium and directly attributable transaction
costs. However, if financial instruments are subsequently measured at fair value through profit and loss, then directly
attributable transaction costs are directly recognised in the profit and loss account at the initial recognition.
After initial recognition, financial instruments are valued in the manner described below.

Development financing
Loans disclosed under development financing are initially measured at fair value, which is equal to the notional value.
The subsequent measurement is at amortised cost being notional value minus repayment and impairment.
These financial assets are assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is objective evidence that any is
impaired. A financial asset is impaired if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that
occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, with negative impact on the estimated future cash flows of that asset,
which can be estimated reliably.
There are no transactional costs applicable that are to be amortised for the loans, hence the effective interest rate is
considered equal to the contract interest rate of the loans and there are no amortisation results in the P&L during the year.

Associates
Equity investments in companies in which the Society has significant influence but does not control (associates) are accounted
for under the equity accounting method. If measurement at net asset value is not possible because the information required for
this cannot be obtained, the participating interest is measured according to the visible equity. Significant influence is normally
evidenced when the Society has from 20% to 50% of a company’s voting rights.
In addition, the Society takes into consideration the factual circumstances, such as:
• the Society’s involvement in the company’s operational and/ or strategic management by participation in its management,
supervisory board or investments committee;
• the presence of material transactions between the Society and the company; and
• the Society making essential technical assistance available.

46 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Under the equity accounting method the investments in associates are initially recorded at cost and the carrying amount is
increased or decreased after the date of acquisition to recognise the Society’s share of the investee’s results or other results
directly recorded in the equity of associates.

Investments
Participating interests where no significant influence is exercised are measured as the lower of cost or realisable value. In case
the Society has the firm intention to sell, then the participating interest is stated at the lower expected sales value.
If the Society transfers an asset or a liability to a participating interest that is measured at cost or current value, the gain or
loss resulting from this transfer is recognised directly and in full in the profit and loss account, unless the gain is in substance
not realised.
The fair value is determined taking into account suitable valuation methods such as book value multiples, price-earnings
ratios, discounted cash flows and recent sale prices of similar investments. In line with the accounting principles for equity
investments, the impairment losses are included in the income statement.

Provision and impairments for possible losses on development financing
The Society’s provision for possible losses is based on an evaluation of the risks of the current development financing portfolio
(loans and equity investments) in terms of present conditions. The calculation of the loss provision for loans is based on
incurred loss model. The loan loss provision can be split in two: 1) incurred and reported loss and 2) incurred but not
reported loss.

Incurred and reported loss
The entity considers evidence of impairment for loans measured at amortised cost both individually and on a portfolio basis.
All individually significant assets are assessed individually for impairment. The individually significant assets that are not found
to be individually impaired and assets that are not individually significant are then collectively assessed for impairment by
grouping together assets with similar risk characteristics.
In assessing collective impairment, the Society uses historical trends, the timing of collections and the amount of loss incurred,
adjusted for management’s judgement as to whether current economic and credit conditions are such that the actual losses
are likely to be greater or lesser than suggested by historical trends.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its
carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the asset’s original effective
interest rate.
Impairment losses are recognised in the profit and loss account and reflected in an allowance account against loans and
receivables. Interest on the impaired asset continues to be recognised by using the asset’s original effective interest rate.
If a partner is deemed non-performing (see below for explanation of ‘non-performing’) due to overdue payments or other
factors, the Society will account for a specific provision if the incurred loss is expected to exceed the collective provisions for
that partner. This provision is calculated based on the Society’s management’s risk assessment, the value of the collateral and
experience with these kinds of partners.

Incurred but not yet reported loss
In the event that a partner has defaulted in the year, but this is only discovered after year end, this will be called an incurred
but not yet reported loss. For this a general provision will be created, which is determined based on back testing. Back testing
means that the Society will test whether partners went into default in the first and/or second quarter of the year after year end
and whether the cause was in the reporting year. A three years average will be taken into account to form the provision.
This provision for development financing risks is deducted from loans and interest outstanding at the balance sheet date.
Write-offs are charged against this loss provision. Additions to or withdrawals from the provision for loan losses are recognised
in the income statement.
Loans are generally written off (either partially or in full) when there is no reasonable expectation of recovering a financial
asset in its entirety. This is generally the case when the Society determines that the borrower does not have assets or sources
of income that could generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject to the write-off. Due to the nature of the
Society’s business, this assessment is carried out at homogeneous portfolio level and applied to the individual financial
asset. Recoveries of amounts previously written off are included in impairment losses on financial instruments in the income
statement.

Consolidated financial statements 47

Loans that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities in order to comply with the Society’s procedures for
recovery of amounts due.
Non-performing partners are partners that are structurally in arrears, often with their loan in the process of being foreclosed.
All equity investments are reviewed and analysed at least annually for indicators of impairment. An equity investment is
considered impaired when the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount. The Society operates in countries where
there is in general no active market for these equity stakes. The recoverable amount calculated as part of the impairment
assessment is determined taking into account suitable valuation methods such as price-earnings ratios and recent sale prices
of similar investments as far as these are available.

Other securities
The other securities are non-listed investments and are stated at cost less impairment. At each balance sheet date, it is
established whether there are any indicators of the securities being subject to impairment. If any such indications exist,
the recoverable amount of the security is determined. Transaction costs are expensed in the income statement if these are
related to financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss.

Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, bank balances and deposits held at call or with maturities up to one year.
Cash and cash equivalents are stated at nominal value.
If cash and cash equivalents are not readily available, this is taken into account in the measurement.

Member and investor capital
The Society raises its equity capital by issuing participations to participants. There is no limit to the number of participations
that can be issued. Participations are issued with a nominal value of EUR 200, CAD 200, CHF 250, GBP 150, SEK 2,000 or
USD 200.
The participations are the most subordinated class of instruments issued by the Society. The Articles of Association of the
Society provide the same terms and conditions to the Society’s holders and no preferential terms are provided, irrespective
of the currency denomination. This means that the Society participations are identical in subordination. The foregoing also
applies in the event of dissolution of the Society. As such, all instruments are presented as equity in the consolidated financial
statements. Where the Society repurchases participations, the consideration paid is deducted from equity (member and
investor capital). Where such participations are issued, any consideration received is included in equity (member and investor
capital).
The Society assesses whether to honour issue and redemption requests on a monthly basis and, following a positive
assessment, processes issue and redemption requests on a monthly basis. All issue and redemption requests made in the
same calendar month shall be treated as having been made on the last day of that month.
The redemption price for a participation shall be determined by the Society in accordance with the following principles:
1. The redemption price for a participation with a nominal value in euros shall be equal to the net asset value (NAV) per
participation, unless the NAV per participation is equal to or higher than two hundred euros (EUR 200), in which case the
redemption price shall be two hundred euros (EUR 200);
2. The redemption price for a participation with a nominal value in a foreign currency is equal to the product of the NAV
quotient (i.e., NAV divided by the total amount of participations calculated in euros) multiplied by the nominal value of
the participation in the relevant foreign currency, unless the NAV per participation (which is calculated in euros by definition)
is equal to or higher than two hundred euros (EUR 200), in which case the redemption price is equal to the nominal value of
the participation in the relevant foreign currency.
The NAV is derived from the Society’s balance sheet at the last calendar day of each month.
The Society may at its sole discretion decide to have the balance sheet go through a process of independent assurance,
including having it audited, in order to determine the NAV.

Provisions
The restructuring provision is a specific provision that consists of anticipated severance payments and other costs that are
directly related to restructuring programmes. These costs are accounted for in the period in which a legally enforceable or
constructive obligation to make the payment arises. No provision is formed for costs or future operating losses stemming from
continuing operations.

48 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

The Society recognises severance payments if the Society has demonstrably committed itself to:
• The termination of the employment contracts of current employees in accordance with an announced detailed formal plan
without the option of the plan being withdrawn; or
• The payment of termination benefits as a result of an offer to encourage voluntary redundancy that cannot be withdrawn.
Provisions are measured at the nominal value of the best estimate of the expenditures that are expected to be required to
settle the liabilities and losses.

Non-current and current liabilities and other financial commitments
Non-current and current liabilities and other financial commitments are measured after their initial recognition at amortised
cost on the basis of the effective interest rate method. The effective interest is directly recorded in the profit and loss account.
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, with net transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at
amortised cost, being the amount received taking account of any premium or discount, less transaction costs.
Redemption payments regarding non-current liabilities that are due next year are presented under current liabilities.

Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments are stated at cost or lower market value, except for derivative contracts concluded to
mitigate currency risks, where the Society has applied cost price hedge accounting. The Society has documented the (generic)
relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items. The Society also tests its assessment, both at hedge inception
and on an ongoing basis, of whether the hedge is effective or if there is over-hedging. The Society has no derivative financial
instruments embedded in contracts.
In applying cost price hedge accounting, the initial recognition of, and the accounting policies for, the hedging instrument are
dependent on the hedged item, which has the following implications:
• If the hedged item is recognised at cost in the balance sheet, the derivative instrument is also stated at cost.
• If the hedged item qualifies as a monetary item denominated in a foreign currency, the derivative instrument, where it has
currency elements, is also stated at the spot rate on the balance sheet date.
• If the derivative instrument has currency elements, the difference between the spot rate (on the date the derivate instrument
is contracted) and the forward rate (at which it will be settled) is spread over the maturity of the derivative instrument.
The ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised directly in the income statement.

3. Accounting policies for the income statement
Income and expense recognition
IIncome is recognised in the profit and loss account when an increase in future economic potential related to an increase in an
asset or a decrease of a liability arises of which the size can be measured reliably. Expenses are recognised when a decrease
in the economic potential related to a decrease in an asset or an increase of a liability arises of which the size can measured
with sufficient reliability.
Revenues and expenses are allocated to the respective period to which they relate.
Income from investments, expenses, outstanding project funding, management fees and time deposits are recognised on
an accrual basis. For non-performing partners, the Society assesses on a case-by-case basis if interest should be accrued
or invoiced.
Transactions between the Society and equity investees that do not classify as group companies are recognised directly and
in full in the consolidated income statement when they result in a gain or loss. Dividends of equity investments that are
carried at cost or net asset value are recognised as income from equity investments in the period in which the dividends
become payable.

Share in result of participating interests
The share in the result of participating interests consists of the share of the group in the results of these participating interests,
determined on the basis of the accounting principles of the group. Results on transactions, where the transfer of assets and
liabilities is between the group and the non-consolidated participating interests and/or mutually between non-consolidated
participating interests themselves, are not recognised as they can be deemed as not realised.
The results of participating interests acquired or sold during the financial year are measured in the group result from the date
of acquisition or until the date of sale respectively.

Consolidated financial statements 49

Interest and similar income and similar expenses
Interest paid and received is recognised on an accrual basis, taking into account the effective interest rate of the assets and
liabilities concerned.

Grants
Designated grants are included as income in the year in which such grants are realised. Grants are realised when the expenses
are made.

Exchange rate differences
Exchange rate differences arising upon the settlement of monetary items are recognised in the income statement in the period
that they arise, unless these monetary items are designated as hedges.

Short-term employee benefits
Salaries, wages and social security contributions are included in the income statement based on the employee’s terms of
employment, when these are due to employees. For benefits with accumulating rights, such as sabbatical leave, the projected
costs are taken into account during the employment.

Dutch pension plans
The Society has pension plans to which the conditions of the Dutch Pension Act are applicable. The pension plan that currently
is in place for employees in the Netherlands is a defined contribution plan with a.s.r. (Amersfoortse and Stad Rotterdam).
The Society pays premiums to a.s.r. on a monthly basis. Premiums are recognised as personnel costs when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as prepayments and accrued income to the extent that this will lead to a reduction in
future payments or a cash refund. Contributions that are due but have not yet been paid are presented as liabilities.
The main provisions of the pension agreement are:
• The Society pays a certain percentage over the pensionable salary. The percentage paid depends on the age of the employee.
• There are no specific agreements relating to reduction or refund of contributions.
• The pension contribution for the employee is voluntary.
The old pension scheme, provided by Nationale Nederlanden, is a conditionally indexed, average-salary scheme. Indexation is
decided upon each year by the Executive Committee.

Foreign pension plans
For employees outside the Netherlands, contributions to pension schemes are paid as per local legal requirements. Employees
outside the Netherlands receive a monthly payment for use towards their pensions, or Oikocredit contributes to a pension
plan according to local legislation or market practice (private/public scheme). Premiums are recognised as personnel costs
when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognised as prepayments and accrued income to the extent that this will lead
to a reduction in future payments or a cash refund. Contributions that are due but have not yet been paid are presented
as liabilities.

Termination benefits
Termination benefits are employee benefits provided in exchange for the termination of the employment. A termination
benefit is recognised as a liability and an expense when the Society is demonstrably and unconditionally committed to make
the payment of the benefit. If the termination is part of a restructuring, the costs of the termination benefits as part of the
restructuring provision.
See the policy under the heading ‘Provisions’.
Termination benefits are measured in accordance with their nature. When the termination benefit is an enhancement of
post-employment benefits, measurement is made according to the same policies as applied to post-employment plans.
Other termination benefits are measured at the best estimate of the expenditures required to settle the liability.

Leasing
The Society may enter into finance and operating leases.
A lease agreement under which the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased object are carried entirely or almost entirely
by the lessee are classified as finance leases. All other leases are classified as operating leases. For the lease classification,
the economic substance of the transaction is conclusive rather than the legal form.

Operating leases as a lessee
If the Society acts as lessee in an operating lease, the leased property is not capitalised. Benefits received as an incentive to
enter into an agreement are recognised as a reduction of rental expense over the lease term. Lease payments and benefits

50 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

regarding operating leases are recognised in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term, unless
another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern of the benefits from the use of the leased asset.

Corporate income tax
The Society is liable for corporate income tax in the Netherlands at a rate of 25.8% (2023: 25.8%), with an initial rate of 19%
for the first EUR 200,000 of taxable income. No tax has to be withheld on dividends distributed by the Society to its holders
of participations.
For taxable temporary differences, a provision for deferred tax liabilities is recognised. For deductible temporary differences,
available tax losses and unused tax credits, a deferred tax asset is recognised, but only to the extent that it is probable that
future taxable profits will be available for set-off or compensation. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and
reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset in the balance sheet if the Society has a legally enforceable right to
offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities, insofar as they relate to the same financial year and deferred tax assets
relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity.
The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets is based on the tax consequences following from the
manner in which the Society expects, at the balance sheet date, to realise or settle its assets, provisions, debts and accrued
liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at nominal value.

Discontinued operations
In order to recognise a business segment as a discontinued operation upon disposal of the segment in question, the Society
defines a business segment as part of a unit in which the activities and cash flow are largely dependent on other activities.
Gains or losses from the disposal of a business segment, with the results from these activities, are measured separately as
result on terminated activities until the date of disposal.

Subsequent events
Events that provide further information on the actual situation at the balance sheet date, and that appear before the financial
statements are prepared, are recognised in the financial statements. Events that provide no information on the actual situation
at the balance sheet date are not recognised in the financial statements. When those events are relevant for the economic
decisions of users of the financial statements, the nature and the estimated financial effects of the events are disclosed in the
financial statements.

4. Accounting policies for the cash flow statement
The cash flow statement has been prepared using the indirect method. The cash items disclosed in the cash flow statement
comprise cash and cash equivalents. Cash flows denominated in foreign currencies have been translated at average exchange
rates. Exchange differences affecting cash items are shown separately in the cash flow statement.

Cash flow from operating activities
The net cash flow from operating activities includes the portfolio movements, such as loans and equity investments. The net
cash flow further includes the movements in receivables and current liabilities. Interest paid and received, dividends received
and income taxes are included in cash from operating activities.

Cash flow from investing activities
The net cash flow from investing activities includes the movements in the (in)tangible fixed assets.

Cash flow from financing activities
The net cash flow from financing activities includes movements in the funding attracted from member and investor capital and
received loans. Dividends paid are recognised as cash used in financing activities.

5. Comprehensive income statement
The comprehensive income statement shows the direct movements in the group equity and funds.

Consolidated financial statements 51

6. Risk management
Organisation
Three Lines Model (aka Three Lines of Defence Model)
As an organisation, the Society applies a Three Lines Model in order to ensure that staff are aware of their role with respect
to the management of risks. In this model, the business departments and offices act as the first line and are responsible for
adhering to processes and internal controls suitable for managing the risks inherent to their activities and operations.
The Society assigns the responsibility of ensuring that relevant risks are properly identified and monitored to the Risk
Monitoring unit, which is part of the Finance & Risk department, reporting to the Director of Finance & Risk. Acting in
coordination with the other units bearing second line responsibilities, such as Legal & Compliance, the Risk Monitoring unit
assesses the adequacy of the internal control environment and whether sufficient risk-mitigation procedures are in place within
the first line of defence to manage the relevant risks.
Internal Audit, as the third line, provides independent and objective assurance on the governance processes, internal controls
and risk management systems, including the effectiveness of the internal controls within the first and second lines. Financial
assurance is out of scope as for this the Society relies on an external ‘Big Four’ audit firm.

Risk governance
The Society maintains a formalised Risk Management & Governance Framework for the risk management activities and
responsibilities within the organisation.
The framework covers the following risk categories:

Financial risks			

Non-financial risks		

Strategic risks

• Credit			
• Equity			
• FX				
• Interest rate
• Counterparty
• Liquidity

• Operational			
• Compliance, Legal and Regulatory
• Reputational			

• Operating and Business model

The framework also comprises the structure and functioning of the Society’s risk committees, upon which the organisation
relies for testing and assessing its internal control environment and monitoring relevant risks. The Society has the following risk
committees in place for overseeing the financial and non-financial risk categories outlined in the table above:
• The Asset-Liability Committee (ALCO), whose members are the Director Finance & Risk (chair), the Director of Accounting,
Control & Tax (vice-chair), the Managing Director (alternative chair), the Director Inflow & Business Enablers, the Director
Impact Investments, the Director Investor Relations & Capital Raising, the Manager of Risk Monitoring and the Corporate
Treasurer. Internal Audit has an observer seat on the committee. The purpose of this committee is to monitor asset and
liability management within the Society, and in particular the FX, interest rate, counterparty and liquidity risks. The ALCO
meets at least once a month.
• Compliance & Regulatory Risk Committee (CRRC). The members of the committee are the Director Finance & Risk (chair),
the Manager Risk Monitoring (vice-chair), the Managing Director (alternative chair), the Director Inflow & Business Enablers,
the Director Strategy & Sustainable Impact, the Director People & Development, the Director Investor Relations, the Manager
Operations, the Director of Accounting, Control & Tax, the Director Impact Investments and, the Head of Legal & Compliance.
Internal Audit holds an observer seat on the committee. The purpose of the CRRC is to ensure the efficient and effective
management of the compliance and regulatory risks throughout the Oikocredit group, in support of the strategy and in line
with the risk appetite and the related governance, risk and control framework.
• Operational & Reputational Risk Committee (ORRC). The members of the committee are the Director Finance & Risk (chair),
the Manager Risk Monitoring (vice-chair), the Managing Director (alternative chair), the Director Inflow & Business
Enablers, the Director of Strategy & Sustainable Impact, the Director People & Development, the Manager Operations, the
Communications Manager and, the Manager Information Security & IT Services IT Applications & Infrastructure. Internal Audit
holds an observer seat on the committee. The purpose of the OCRRC is to ensure the efficient and effective management
of the operational and reputational risks throughout the Oikocredit group, in support of the strategy and in line with the risk
appetite and the related governance, risk and control framework.
• Portfolio Risk Committee (PRC). The members of this committee are the Director Finance & Risk (chair), the Manager Risk
Monitoring (vice-chair), the Managing Director (alternative chair), the Director Impact Investments, and the Director Strategy
& Sustainable Impact. The Manager Risk Analysis Unit, the Corporate Treasurer and Internal Audit are observers. The
purpose of this committee is to ensure the efficient and effective management of the total risk in the development financing

52 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

portfolio (i.e. the investment portfolio) in support of the strategy and in line with the risk appetite and the related governance,
risk and control framework.
• Following the resignation of the Director Finance & Risk, a temporary redistribution was implemented, appointing the Director
Inflow & Business Enablers as the Chair of the Compliance & Regulatory Risk Committee (CRRC), Operational & Reputational
Risk Committee (ORRC), and Asset-Liability Committee (ALCO), and the Director Finance & Risk ad interim (a.i) (the Managing
Director) as Chair of the Portfolio Risk Committee (PRC).
In addition to the risk committees, the Society has set up a Social Performance Committee. The purpose of this committee is to
drive and guide a truly embedded and integrated approach to impact investing for the Society and is currently scoped to the
development finance portfolio. The committee plays a key role in aligning the work of different units with the Society’s intention
of generating measurable, beneficial social impact alongside a fair financial return.

Financial risk
Credit risk
Credit risk is defined as the risk that a partner does not pay their outstanding amounts and other obligations (e.g. interest
payments and fees) on the agreed due dates. Credit risk includes all the potential reasons why a partner cannot or will not
repay, including: changes in economic or political circumstances in the country where the partner is located or operates;
changes in the risks in the business activities of the partner; and risks of changing conditions for its business activities
(e.g. the effect of changing regulations, and changes in climate and environment). The risks of non-repayment can also stem
from specific partner circumstances and actions, such as business mismanagement.
Most Society counterparties are partners and therefore the risk that they default on a loan is considered credit risk. For all
other counterparties, such as banks or financial institutions that provide financial services to the Society, the risk of nonrepayment is described as counterparty risk.
Assessing credit risk can be considered at the core of the Society’s activities. A solid risk assessment of a partner’s business
activities is of mutual interest, as it helps both the Society and the partner align on creating social impact in a financially
sound way and with a longer-term perspective. In order to assess the potential losses arising from the credit risk exposure,
the Society applies the measurement of incurred loss model.
The Society’s Credit Committee, consist of the Director of Finance & Risk (chair), the Managing Director (alternative chair),
the Strategic Risk Expert (alternative chair) the Director of Impact Investments, the Strategic Advisor Impact & Social
Performance, the Director of Specialised Finance & Community Building, the Director of Strategy & Sustainable Impact,
the Regional Director Africa, the Regional Director Latin America & the Caribbean, the Regional Director Southeast Asia,
the Director of India, and the Team Lead for Risk Analysis, The Credit Committee approves loan proposals. At least one
representative for each of the three core lines of expertise (Finance & Risk, Strategy & Sustainable Impact and Impact
Investrments) must be present at the meeting to constitute a valid quorum.
Following the resignation of the Director of Finance & Risk, a temporary redistribution was implemented, appointing the
Director of Finance & Risk a.i (the Managing Director) as the Chair of the Credit Committee.
The Credit Committee has delegated some decisions on credit transactions to the Risk Analysis Unit under the straight-through
process procedure and on low-risk contract changes.
To ensure diversification in the investment portfolio and reduce concentration risk and intrinsic credit risk, the Society has
established policies based on its risk assessment system to set limits in exposure related to amounts outstanding:
• Per country (geographical diversification)
• Per country group based on country rating (credit profile diversification)
• Per asset class (asset class diversification)
• Per business sector (sector diversification)
• Per partner (single borrower diversification)
• To a group of companies (group diversification)
The adherence to these limits as well as historical development are monitored on a monthly basis by the risk management
function and shared internally with the investment function. At least on a quarterly basis, it is shared with the Portfolio Risk
Committee.

Consolidated financial statements 53

2024 gross credit exposure
As at 31 December 2024

Financial
inclusion

Agriculture

Other

Total

Region

Renewable
energy

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

%

Africa
Asia
South America
Central America
Other
Total
%

123,254
252,531
185,716
184,163
8,081
753,745
78.9%

58,099
2,811
40,009
45,164
9,421
155,503
16.3%

15,529
21,335
3,895
4,061
44,820
4.7%

1,030
1,030
0.1%

197,911
276,676
225,725
233,222
21,563
955,098
100%

20.7%
29.0%
23.6%

Financial
inclusion

Agriculture

Other

Total

Region

Renewable
energy

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

%

Africa
Asia
South America
Central America
Other
Total
%

113,065
241,563
209,783
170,179
8,771
743,361
79.2%

59,645
2,655
37,716
35,444
11,852
147,311
15.7%

17,482
19,061
4,472
3,905
44,920
4.8%

1,412
1,860
3,273
0.3%

191,604
263,279
249,359
210,095
24,528
938,865
100%

20.4%
28.0%
26.6%
22.4%
2.6%
100%

2023 gross credit exposure
As at 31 December 2023

2.6%
100%

The total development financing credit portfolio in the table above does not reconcile with the loan portfolio as disclosed in
Note 9. The difference is caused by a financial lease construction regarding solar panels, which are classified as fixed assets
in the balance sheet. It is added to the table above as the leasing agreements are subject to credit risk. Next to this,
the tables do not include committed-not-yet-disbursed amounts which at year-end 2024 amounted to EUR 134.2 million
(2023: EUR 201.0 million).

Non-performing loans – portfolio at risk overdue by more than 90 days (PAR 90)
As part of managing credit risk, the Society closely monitors the financial performance of the portfolio of credit instruments
generated. A PAR 90 ratio reflects the credit products showing amounts overdue for more than 90 days. This ratio is
considered a key indicator for assessing the non-performing portfolio and the general health of the development financing
credit portfolio. The ratio is assessed at region, country and sector levels in order to support the active credit portfolio
management corrective actions. PAR 90 was 8.3% as at 31 December 2024 (2023: 5.8%).
Loans more than 30 days overdue and rescheduled loans have a provision applied that is calculated based on factors such
as the individual partner’s situation or available collateral. The relevant exposures (financial inclusion partners larger than
EUR 1 million and partners larger than EUR 500,000 from other sectors) are then further analysed with the support of the
Special Collections unit in order to understand if the quantitative specific provisioning fairly reflects the potential losses or if
manual adjustments are needed. These specific provisions are reviewed each quarter.

54 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Overview of credit portfolio at risk (PAR) split and overdue receivables
As at 31 December
2024

2023

€ ,000

%

€ ,000

%

On time
PAR 1-30
PAR 31-90
PAR 91-180
PAR 181-360

835,556
27,674
12,216
21,480
20,180

87.5%
2.9%
1.3%
2.2%
2.1%

848,354
22,914
13,423
11,647
24,988

90.4%
2.4%
1.4%
1.2%
2.7%

PAR > 360
Total

37,993
955,098

4.0%
100.0%

17,539
938,865

1.9%
100.0%

Country risk and concentration
Country risk arises from country-specific events that have an impact on the exposure in a specific country, such as those of a
political or macroeconomic nature. All investments entail the acceptance of some degree of country risk, but to limit this risk
exposure, the Society has developed an exposure limits system that is also a function of the sovereign risk assessment of the
countries in the investment portfolio, for which an external rating provider is used. Changes in country ratings and scores as
well as the analysis from this external rating provider are monitored regularly. In addition to this, the Society also benefits from
the country reports, regional outlooks and news flow of this external rating provider along with other intelligence providers to
monitor ongoing developments in countries and regions.
Country risks are mitigated through diversification of the geographical distribution of the portfolio across a number of
countries and by percentage limit allocation according to sovereign ratings. Higher-rated countries have a higher percentage
(of investable capital) limit. Total exposure in CCC (to countries with CCC-, CCC and CCC+ ratings) and B (to countries with B-,
B and B+ ratings) rating buckets are also capped with a percentage limit (of investable capital). For country risk, the Society
uses sovereign ratings as assessed by S&P Global Market Intelligence, which takes into account the quantitative factors from
countries’ financial statements further adjusted for economic risk, political risk and other macroeconomic forecasts.

Gross development financing portfolio exposure grouped by sovereign rating
As at 31 December
2024
Sovereign rating
AAA Investment grade
Investment grade
AA
Investment grade
A
BBB Investment grade
Speculative grade
BB
Speculative grade
B
CCC Speculative grade
Speculative grade
CC
Speculative grade
D
Total 1

Prime
High grade
Upper medium grade
Lower medium grade
Speculative grade
Highly speculative
Extremely speculative
Imminent default
In default

2023

€ ,000

%

€ ,000

%

412,054
222,423
321,520
153,581
1,109,578

0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
37.1%
20.0%
29.0%
13.8%
0.0%
0.0%
100.0%

387,090
253,954
283,935
166,244
1,091,223

0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
35.5%
23.3%
26.0%
15.2%
0.0%
0.0%
100.0%

¹ The totals include the financial lease construction regarding solar panels and guarantees and significant influence investments that are treated differently from an
accounting perspective. These totals are therefore different from the total development financing portfolio presented in the consolidated balance sheet and notes.

Due to the Society’s commitment to financing partners in emerging and frontier markets, the degree of country risk to
which the portfolio is exposed is skewed towards being speculative grade. However, the granularity of the portfolio (i.e. its
diversification across a wide variety of assets) within each country, and the fact that our financial inclusion partners have a
diversified portfolio, helps mitigate exposure to individual default risk.
In the table below the development financing portfolio is presented based on exposure per country. The largest 10 countries
based on exposure constitute around 66.6% of the total portfolio. The level of granularity for country exposure is relatively
high, with the only notable exception being India, which is one of the highest rated countries in the portfolio.

Consolidated financial statements 55

Development financing portfolio - top 10 countries exposures
As at 31 December
2024

India
Kenya
Ecuador
El Salvador
Bolivia
Multinational 1
Mexico
Guatemala
Peru
Brazil
Total

Sovereign rating

€ ,000

%

BBB
BBCCC+
CCC+
BB
BBB+
BBBBB
BB+

270,408
83,280
65,319
63,202
51,853
48,813
43,744
40,766
40,549
31,169
739,103

24.4%
7.5%
5.9%
5.7%
4.7%
4.4%
3.9%
3.7%
3.7%
2.8%
66.61%

1,109,578

100.0%

Total portfolio 1

1

Sovereign rating
India
Kenya
Ecuador
El Salvador
Multinational
Bolivia
Peru
Mexico
Indonesia
Guatemala
Total

BBB
BBCCC+
BB
CCC+
BBB
BBB+
BBBBB-

2023
€ ,000

%

228,805
72,975
70,928
59,207
52,977
48,947
47,566
46,928
35,420
34,987
698,740

20.9%
6.7%
6.5%
5.4%
4.9%
4.5%
4.4%
4.3%
3.2%
3.2%
63.95%

1,091,223

100.0%

The totals include the financial lease construction regarding solar panels and guarantees that are treated differently from an accounting perspective. These totals
are therefore different from the total development financing portfolio presented in the consolidated balance sheet and notes. Multinationals include partners that are
incorporated not necessarily in focus countries but operating in one or multiple focus countries.

Financial counterparties risk
Financial counterparties risk constitutes the risk of losses due to diminished creditworthiness of a financial counterparty of
the Society, or its default on contractual obligations functional to the deployment of the Society’s main investment activity.
This risk may arise in scenario’s such as hedging transactions with a positive market value (e.g., FX hedges) and bank deposits
or credit balances, particularly with banks in frontier and emerging markets.
Eligibility criteria are defined based on their creditworthiness, ESG and service level criteria for contracting counterparties.
Financial counterparty risk is further mitigated with robust contracts, such as those incorporating the International Swaps and
Derivatives Association (ISDA) master agreement and associated credit annexes, and by diversifying cash and deposit holdings
across multiple counterparties with high credit ratings, ideally located in developed markets.
An internal financial counterparty policy, which outlines eligibility criteria, limits, and approval procedures, governs the
Society’s counterparty exposures. The policy is endorsed by the ALCO and approved by the Executive Committee. It is the
responsibility of the ALCO to approve new financial counterparties based on the Treasury unit’s analysis.

Equity risk
Equity risk can be defined as the risk of financial losses related to holding a particular equity investment. This includes the risk
that the investment fails to generate an appropriate financial risk-adjusted return, especially taking into account the implicit
illiquidity of the equity investment that can arise if no buyer can be found to finance the exit from the investment. An equity
participation can also generate a long-term loss due to the deterioration of the partner’s financial and business conditions.
Equity investments have different risk characteristics compared to loans. The investment lock-up period is usually longer
(around 10 years) and not all equity participations generate steady cash flows (i.e. dividends).
In order to mitigate equity risk in the first line, all individual investment proposals (equity and equity-related products) are
assessed by specialist Equity team members in the countries in which the Society works, as well as by the Equity team
members in the central office in Amersfoort. This assessment involves an extensive due diligence process and investment
proposals must meet predefined criteria. Strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats (SWOT) analyses are made and
management, financial, legal and social performance analyses take place.
The Society’s Investment Committee consists of the Managing Director (chair), the Director of Finance & Risk (alternative
chair), the Director of Impact Investments (alternative chair; or alternatively, the Director of Specialised Finance & Capacity
Building),the Team Lead Risk Analysis (or alternatively, the Strategic Risk Expert), the Equity Managers/ Equity Portfolio
Specialist, the Director of Strategy & Sustainable Impact (or alternatively, the Strategic Advisor Impact & Social Performance),
and the Independent PE Advisor. The quorum for the Investment Committee is two Managing Board members plus one other
voting member, or their respective delegates as long as the following Society functions are represented: Finance & Risk,
Strategy & Sustainable Impact and Impact Investments.

56 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

The Investment Committee works in tandem with the Equity unit to which some decisions are delegated (for example, minor
changes in contract and other matters related to the investee).
The Society’s equity risk mitigation entails an asset class exposure limit on the overall portfolio. This is currently set at around
15% of the total investable capital.1 Proactive control of the current and prospective financial performance of the equity
investment portfolio, the latter based on the internal fair value estimates performed on each equity stake, is also performed in
order to set risk management guidelines and positively influence the active equity asset allocation. Below the gross exposure
of the equity investment portfolio is presented at acquisition price.
1

The Society’s total investable capital is equal to total assets minus the target liquidity ratio.

2024 equity exposure
As at 31 December 2024

Financial
inclusion

Agriculture

Renewable
energy

Other1

Total

Region

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

%

Africa
Asia
South America
Central America
Other
Total1
%

10,472
43,742
29,048
10,063
7,627
100,952
65.3%

17,202
8,418
4,132
29,751
19.3%

5,504
16,413
21,917
14.2%

1,812
48
1,860
1.2%

34,990
52,159
29,048
10,063
28,220
154,480
100%

22.7%
33.8%
18.8%
6.5%
18.3%
100%

¹ The totals include the financial lease construction regarding solar panels and guarantees and significant influence investments that are treated differently from an
accounting perspective. These totals are therefore different from the total development financing portfolio presented in the consolidated balance sheet and notes.
The category Other includes investments in equity funds.

2023 equity exposure
As at 31 December 2023

Financial
inclusion

Agriculture

Other

Total

Region

Renewable
energy

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

%

Africa
Asia
South America
Central America
Other
Total1
%

8,727
33,768
29,457
10,649
7,918
90,519
59.4%

23,404
8,166
3,201
6,002
40,773
26.8%

3,657
13,718
17,375
11.4%

1,811
1,880
3,691
2.4%

37,599
41,934
29,457
13,851
29,518
152,358
100%

24.7%
27.5%
19.3%
19.4%
100%

Note that these tables do not include committed-not-yet-disbursed amounts which for 2024 were EUR 7.0 million (2023:
EUR 31.0 million). The tables also do not include impairments. Impairments amounted to an addition of EUR 6.9 million in 2024
(2023: release of EUR 3.5 million). The dividend received in 2024 amounted to EUR 7.5 million (2023: EUR 4.6 million).
The results from the sale of equity stakes amounted to a EUR 9.1 million gain (2023: EUR 6.4 million loss).

Consolidated financial statements 57

Foreign currency (FX) risk
FX risk is defined as the risk that the value of the Society’s active investments will fluctuate due to changes in foreign currency
exchange rates compared to the Society functional currency.
Although the functional currency of the Society is the euro, a significant part of the Society’s investments in development
financing are outstanding in US dollars and in other domestic currencies (emerging and frontier currencies).
In addition to euro participations, the Society also issues participations denominated in British pounds, Canadian dollars,
Swedish krona, Swiss francs and US dollars. However, FX exposure management by the Society excludes long term noninterest-bearing assets/liabilities that are also not revalued for accounting purposes for e.g. equity investments (regarded as
permanent assets valued at their original cost) and member and investor capital (regarded as permanent liabilities valued
at their original cost).
Regarding active FX exposure management for INR, the Society doesn’t hedge the subsidiary value of Maanaveeya (our Indian
subsidiary) but only hedges the INR exposure from intercompany loans.
The net foreign currency position of the Society is monitored by the risk management function throughout the year, in order
to steer the offsetting FX hedging portfolio and bring the overall FX position in line with the FX risk appetite established in the
Society’s market risk management policy.
In the overview below, the positions as at 31 December 2024, translated to euro at the exchange rates prevailing at the
balance sheet date, are presented. FX exposures arising from equity participations and member and investor capital are not
taken into account, hence not hedged, due to the relatively small cash flow generated by this exposure.

Foreign currency exposure - net foreign currency asset positions
FX cash
As at 31 December 2024
FX gross
credit assets

FX LLP

FX member
capital
+ FX liabilities

FX hedging

Net foreign
currency
asset exposure

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

217,834
398
10,489
26,131
8,632
2,509
434
2,611
89
8,964
613,250
891,342

3,334
3,582
546
1
146
27
350
9,461
17,446

3,373
7,616
954
130
86
48,886
61,045

63,219
13,425
76,644

79,095
667
10,053
17,782
7,291
2,117
2,810
8,797
575,577
704,188

75,481
3,313
982
734
532
420
304
150
89
81
(15,177)
66,910

Foreign currency exposure - net foreign currency liability positions
FX cash
As at 31 December 2024
FX gross
credit assets

FX LLP

FX member
capital
+ FX liabilities

FX hedging

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

-

26
2
1,606
1,634

-

1,626
6,336
6,910
78,881
93,753

INR
MWK
UGX
PEN
XOF
GHS
KGS
KES
MAD
HNL
Other

Indian rupee
Malawian kwacha
Ugandan shilling
Peruvian sol
West African CFA franc
Ghana cedi
Kyrgystani som
Kenyan shilling
Moroccan dinar
Honduras lempira

Total

CAD
GBP
SEK
CHF
Total

Canadian dollar
British pound
Swedish krona
Swiss franc

58 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Net foreign
currency liability
exposure
€ ,000
€ ,000
-

(1,625 )
(6,311)
(6,909)
(77,275)
(92,120)

Foreign currency exposure - net foreign currency asset positions
FX gross
credit assets

FX cash

FX LLP

FX member and
investor capital
+ FX liabilities

FX hedging

Net foreign
currency
asset exposure

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

19,851
2,846
3,706
34,810
2,767
24,083
705
13,108
461,790
4,621
316,744
885,031

6
1,112
2,711
1,243
1
42
212
22,396
5,819
33,542

1,661
4,847
137
20,197
17,110
43,952

13,091
40,297
53,388

15,955
1,155
3,176
34,579
1,375
18,140
12,738
450,502
4,242
277,261
819,123

3,902
2,803
1,581
1,473
1,392
1,097
747
445
397
379
(12,105)
2,111

Foreign currency exposure - net foreign currency liability positions
FX cash
As at 31 December 2023
FX gross
credit assets

FX LLP

FX hedging

Net foreign
currency liability
exposure

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

FX member and
investor capital
+ FX liabilities
€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

-

74
76
65
1,517
1,732

-

1,877
6,720
7,209
78,916
94,722

-

(1,803)
(6,644)
(7,144)
(77,399)
(92,990)

As at 31 December 2023

GTQ
KES
GHS
IDR
MWK
PEN
NGN
UGX
USD
DOP
Other
Total

CAD
GBP
SEK
CHF
Total

Guatemalan quetzal
Kenyan shilling
Ghana cedi
Indonesian rupee
Malawian kwacha
Peruvian sol
Nigerian naira
Ugandan shilling
US dollar
Dominican peso

Canadian dollar
British pound
Swedish krona
Swiss franc

These tables include the net foreign currency exposure in loans (loans minus loss provisioning), cash and deposits, hedging
contracts, member and investor capital and liabilities in foreign currencies.
The Society manages its foreign currency risk by managing exposure to individual currencies driven by currency exposure
limits. The currency exposure limits are a function of historical foreign exchange rate volatility, market liquidity of the currency
and loss tolerance per currency. The excess exposure that could generate an unacceptable result compared with the
currency exposure limit is hedged externally with FX derivatives through selected counterparties.

Sensitivity of assets to USD
Change of value to the euro

USD value increase of 1.0%
USD value decrease of 1.0%

2024
Sensitivity
of assets

2023
Sensitivity
of assets

€ ,000

€ ,000

(99)
99

(144)
144

Due to the Society’s hedging, net income is less volatile and the sensitivity of the nominal value of the assets has been
reduced to changes in the euro–US dollar rate.

Consolidated financial statements 59

Transfer and conversion risk
There are two subtypes of FX risk to which the Society is inevitably exposed in its investment activity: transfer risk and
conversion risk. Transfer risk is the risk that the proceeds cannot be repatriated to the Netherlands. Conversion risk is the
risk that proceeds generated in local currency cannot be converted into euro. Often these two types of risk are the byproduct of the capital controls that many emerging and frontier countries adhere to. These two risks can become material,
especially in the case of actual or potential sudden capital outflows that could put the financial systems of these countries
at risk.
Geographical diversification of the portfolio is key for the Society in limiting the potential losses that these two risks can
generate, especially in terms of liquidity. The materiality of these risks for each country is assessed by the Treasury unit
on a day-to-day basis and by the risk management function on a long-term basis and is reported to the ALCO on a
periodical basis.

Interest rate risk
IInterest rate risk is the risk arising from movements in interest rate environments (both for hard and local exposures) that
affect the value of the portfolio and the income statement. The interest rate risk appetite of the Society in foreign currency is
low, therefore the Society aims to hedge all such exposures through FX and interest rate derivatives.
The Society manages its interest rate risk by managing one-year equivalent exposure (i.e. maturity adjusted cashflows) to
individual currencies driven by currency interest rate risk exposure limits. The currency interest rate risk exposure limits are
a function of historical interest rate volatility in the currency, market liquidity of the currency and loss tolerance per currency.
The excess exposure that could generate an unacceptable result compared to the currency exposure limit is hedged externally
with FX and interest rate derivatives through selected counterparties.

Euro interest rate risk
One of the main sources of interest rate risk for the Society arises from exposure to the euro, resulting in fluctuations in net
interest income and value due to changes in the euro interest rate environment. In essence, any movement in euro interest
rates will almost immediately and fully manifest in Oikocredit’s financial results. Exposure to euro interest rates is mainly
synthetically generated by the Society through the FX and interest rate derivatives instruments that are used to hedge the
underlying development financing loan portfolio. Another source of exposure to this risk arises from the liquidity buffer of
the company. To mitigate the impact of euro interest rate changes based on the current and future expected euro market
circumstances, ALCO discusses and approves a euro market strategy at least once a year and potentially more frequently if
circumstances dictate. This euro market strategy drives the effective euro portfolio maturity profile managed by Treasury using
interest rate swaps. As a weighted average, the euro portfolio of the Society has a duration of approximately three years.

US dollar interest rate risk
The US dollar credit exposure in the development financing portfolio is the main foreign currency exposure of the Society.
Although the credit products are hedged through FX and interest rate derivatives (e.g. FX forwards, FX swaps and cross
currency interest rate swaps), changes in the US interest rate market unavoidably affect the value and net interest income of
the United States dollar exposure. This risk exposure is managed by Treasury and monitored by the Risk Monitoring unit and
the ALCO to ensure that the one-year equivalent exposure does not become excessively wide in a way that could significantly
impair the net results of the company.

Local currency interest rate risk
Among the main interest rate risk issues arising from local currency exposure is the lack of liquidity behind the domestic
interest rate markets of the related countries. The first challenge that the Society has to overcome is the selection of
appropriate benchmark rates (i.e. basis risk) to be used when pricing its loans. In addressing this issue, the rates used are
offered by the same specialised local currency hedging counterparties that give indications about what would be a realistic
benchmark rate to use.
In addition, the local currency exposure is subject to interest rate duration mismatch between the portfolio of originated
credit products and the underlying FX and interest rate hedging portfolio. This usually arises from the limitations the Society
encounters in the local currency hedging market in terms of derivatives product availability. This could potentially lead to a
reduction of the contractual net interest income. This risk exposure is managed by managing the one-year equivalent exposure
for each individual currency within the approved currency interest rate risk exposure limits.

60 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Net foreign currency 1 yr equivalent exposure*
As at 31 December 2024

Net foreign currency 1 yr equivalent exposure
€ ,000

MXN
INR
CRC
NGN
BRL
MAD
GHS
ARS
UIU
BOB
Other
Total

Mexican peso
Indian rupee
Costa Rican colon
Nigerian naira
Brazilian real
Maroccan dinar
Ghana cedi
Argentinian peso
Unidad Indexada (Uruguay)
Bolivian boliviano

2,098
2,070
823
217
68
51
11
4
13,074
7,732

* Note because of change in the Society’s market risk policy, interest rate risk is now assessed as a function of
one-year equivalent exposure rather than effective portfolio duration as until last year.

Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk can be defined as the risk that the Society is unable to meet payment obligations, redemption requests from
members and investors, and/or payment commitments to partners and other counterparties.
Liquidity is defined as the sum of cash and bank balances; the value of the term investment portfolio, adjusted for any portions
of it pledged to third parties; and the available credit lines with banks. Liquidity divided by the total assets stated on the
balance sheet is referred to as the liquidity ratio.
The Society aims to have a liquidity ratio above 12.5% of total assets. The main source of liquidity is new member and investor
capital participations that can be issued by the Society. On the reporting date and during the year 2024, the Society held a
sufficient liquidity buffer.
Some of the volatility in the liquidity available arises from the margin calls that could derive from the FX and interest rate
hedging portfolio held by the Society. Although these contracts are held for hedging purposes only and therefore effectively
cover the risk arising from underlying exposure, the cash flows of the two exposures (underlying and derivative) might not be
perfectly matched. It could therefore be possible that hedge providers require a collateral pledge after a sharp decrease of
the mark-to-market value of the derivative contract while the underlying investment has yet to generate cash flows (interest
income and instalments). This liquidity risk could be significant, especially for the hedges on the US dollar investment portfolio,
where a sharp appreciation of the United States dollar to the euro could trigger a margin call. Refer to Notes 12 and 20 for
more details on the margin calls.
This liquidity buffer enables the Society to meet its commitments to contracts it has already entered into on the one side and
possible redemptions of participations on the other side. To manage liquidity risk, the Society uses liquidity monitoring tools for
a better understanding and forecasting of liquidity trends.
Below is an overview of the liquidity position at year-end.
Liquidity
As at 31 December

Cash and cash equivalents
Unused credit lines
Net liquidity
Total assets

2024

2023

€ ,000

%

€ ,000

%

62,467
107,796
170.263
1,147,039

36.7%
63.3%
14.8%

58,772
72,210
130,982
1,156,873

44.9%
55.1%
11.3%

Consolidated financial statements 61

The Society is primarily funded by member and investor capital, and the Managing Board also has authority to procure credit
facilities. Redemption will be at the nominal value. However, if the net asset value per participation is lower than the nominal
value per participation, the amount payable upon redemption of the participation(s) shall not exceed the sum corresponding
to the net asset value. The Society follows the issuance and redemption rules included in the Participation Terms. These rules
set out a standardised and transparent process for the issuance and redemption of participations (please also refer to the
Oikocredit Prospectus in connection with the offering of participations).

Non-financial risk
Operational risk
Operational risk is the risk of losses resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, from actions by people (e.g. human
error) and systems, or from external events. The Society’s objective is to minimise overall operational losses and avoid material
losses, as well as maintain its reputation among investors and partners as an effective and reliable organisation. To this end,
the Society utilises a risk-based approach for putting in place policies, procedures and systems that are capable of mitigating
the impact and/or probability of occurrence of the operational risks inherent to its activities.
Building on the streamlining of operations and optimisation of controls within processes, the Society is moving towards a
more rational and effective approach to operational risk management. The Society relies on an internal process for incident
reporting and resolution, which enables the timely reporting of potential losses and near misses occurring in the course of
day-to-day operations, and also enhances consistency and timeliness in responding to incidents. The purpose of this process
is to derive lessons learned for avoiding future incidents while enabling the absorption of potential losses through appropriate
capital planning. No incidents with a net material impact on the Society’s financial condition took place in 2024, and the sum of
all losses due to operational incidents was approx. EUR 50,000 for the whole year.

Compliance, legal and Regulatory risk
Compliance risk encompasses both the risk of losses as a result of the Society’s failure to comply with relevant laws,
regulations, rules, internal policies, standards and the code of conduct applicable to its business activities, and the risk of
losses due to integrity-related events.
The Society makes it its explicit target to be a compliant organisation: all of the Society’s commercial actions are tailored and
it is continually further enhancing its policies and procedures in order to meet statutory obligations and act in accordance
with market practices. An example is the Society’s ‘customer due diligence’ (CDD) practices (CDD screening and scoring of
‘customers’ and documentation checks) to verify the suitability of, and risks involved in, entering and maintaining a business
relationship, including but not limited to anti-money-laundering (AML), sanctions and combating financing of terrorism (CFT)
risks.
The Society adheres to applicable laws and regulations, and has a low risk appetite for incidental breaches – including breaches
of internal rules and policies governing its operations. The Society has zero tolerance for the crossing of ethical red lines.
Compliance risks (such as fraud risk, money laundering risk, financing terrorism risk, corruption or bribery risk, business
practices risk and circumvention of sanctions risk) are governed by a set of policies and associated control activities, including
but not limited to CDD policies, a conflict of interest policy, a personal trading policy, a whistleblower policy, an anti-bribery
and anti-corruption policy, a personal data protection policy, a transfer pricing policy and the code of conduct. Fraud risk is
monitored through our Compliance & Regulatory Risk Committee.
As failures to comply might lead to sanctions and fines, financial losses and reputational damage, the Society ensures that its
very low tolerance of non-compliance is embedded in the culture of its business operations.
Regulatory risk is the risk of losses, declined market share or reputation among stakeholders, worsened competitive position,
or reduced financial sustainability due to changes in law, and regulations affecting the Society’s ability to execute its strategy.
In late 2020, the Society initiated a process to review our capital-raising model and look for possibilities to make it more
resilient in the face of evolving financial market regulation, especially in the European Union. This process continued
throughout 2021 and an Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) was held in December 2021 to seek a mandate for the next
steps, which were carried out commencing in 2022. This initiative coincided with legal changes in Germany, which took
effect on 17 August 2022 and made it impossible to raise capital from German investors via the heritage trust model used
by the German support associations. An EGM held in October 2022 approved the new capital-raising model. This model was
implemented as per 1 March 2023.
The Society frequently updates its legal assessment of new and upcoming regulation by using a system that is generally used in
the Netherlands – a dedicated report is provided to the Executive Committee on a semi-annual basis. Additionally, the Society’s
representatives attend seminars to remain aware of upcoming changes and of the response of peers.

62 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

The EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) will come into effect in phases starting from 2024 for companies
that are already subject to Non-Financial Reporting Directive (NFRD) reporting. From the draft Dutch CSRD implementation
regulation, as published in June 2024, it became apparent that the Dutch regulator aims to exclude cooperative legal forms
from reporting obligations. As the Society is a Dutch Cooperative it is expected not to be in scope of CSRD reporting. The
Society aims to meet the sustainability information needs of its stakeholders in the spirit of the new European sustainability
reporting requirements.

Reputational risk
Reputational risk is the risk of losses due to negative perception of the Society’s commercial practices and financing activities
by its direct stakeholders (e.g. partners, members and investors) or by the general public and other business counterparties.
Typically, reputational risks arise from failing to manage compliance or operational risks. Another important element of
reputational risk is the need to ensure that all staff members act consciously and in line with the Society’s mission, vision and
values, and that all new staff members get sufficient training to act in line with the mission, vision and values.
With increasing competition and marketing from the impact investing sector, it has become increasingly difficult for the Society
to effectively distinguish itself from competitors purely on the basis of what is considered ‘impact’. This could constitute a risk,
also if one such competitor were to be scrutinised and exposed to negative media coverage, as this might negatively reflect on
the Society’s reputation as well.
The Society consistently updates its standards for ESG scoring, to ensure that only the partners that meet the Society’s
standards are selected. Once a partner is financed, the Society monitors the developments of the partner’s activity and ESG
scores, as well as its adherence to social covenants (in the case of credit deals, namely requirements in the loan agreement
with respect to improvements or minimum criteria for impact and social conduct) or to social performance indicators (in the
case of equity deals).
In 2022 the Society was notified that three non-governmental organisations had filed a complaint with the Dutch National
Contact Point (NCP) for the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises on Responsible Business Conduct alleging noncompliance with the guidelines in relation to the Society’s activities in Cambodia. Oikocredit cooperated fully with the
NCP’s dialogue and mediation process. The NCP’s good offices procedures ended in January 2025 without a fully mediated
agreement. But parties found common ground on several points, including that a grievance mechanism and fund, which comply
with the OECD Guidelines and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, should be established to address the
problems and adverse impacts.

Strategic risk
Strategic risk can be defined as the risk of losses caused by a failure to respond well to changes in the business and market
environment and can potentially have a major impact on the Society’s financial situation and ability to meet its strategic
objectives.

Operating and business model risk
Operating model risk is the risk of losses; declined market share or worsened competitive position; reduced financial
sustainability due to suboptimal efficiency and scalability of the Society’s operating model; or because of excessive complexity
in the execution of its strategy.
Since 2022 the Society has relied on an enhanced balanced scorecard methodology, which closely tracks the implementation
of the strategy based on a selection of 18 key performance indicators (KPIs). One of the key indicators is the cost ratio on
total assets (excluding grant-based expenses). For the year 2024 the cost ratio to total assets was 4.0%. There are initiatives
undertaken to improve the ratio.
Business model risk is the risk of losses, declined market share, worsened competitive position or reduced financial
sustainability due to proposing mispriced or unsuitable financial solutions to potential partners or an undesirable product
to prospective members or investors.
As part of its ongoing strategy, the Society identified two distinct sets of products and markets, namely:
• Products and markets relating to the development financing portfolio (‘outflow’) in which the Society has a focus on
33 selected focus countries based on our past performance, the need for social investing and the Society’s ability to
be successful.
• Products and markets relating to the funding of these activities (‘inflow’), which currently comprise nine countries in which
the Society actively attracts investments from members and non-members. The Society is repositioning its capital-raising
(inflow) model, which was a major undertaking in 2022 and 2023, with most of the transition work already completed for its
biggest inflow market (Germany). The transition to the new model is decreasing complexity and regulatory risk, while
increasing transparency and freeing up more resources for our core mission – as side effect, the Society experienced a

Consolidated financial statements 63

contained reduction in the number of members and investors and a consequent withdrawal of member and investor capital
(see Note 14).
In 2024, the Society continued to monitor its gradual withdrawal from markets aligned to the implemented business model
(e.g. our refocus of geographical scope and emphasis on three sectors). The society will continue to review the business
model as part of the strategy for 2022-2026.

7. Intangible fixed assets
Intangible fixed assets
Can be specified as follows:

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

2,593
1,525
4,118

2,420
1,714
4,134

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

Historical cost price as at 1 January
Accumulated amortisation as at 1 January
Balance as at 1 January

3,252
(832)
2,420

3,252
(507)
2,745

Investments
Disposals
Amortisation
Movements in the year

539
(366)
173

(325)
(325)

Historical cost price as at 31 December
Accumulated amortisation as at 31 December
Balance as at 31 December

3,791
(1,198)
2,593

3,252
(832)
2,420

Goodwill
Software and data warehouse
Balance as at 31 December

Changes in goodwill
Can be specified as follows:

Goodwill has been recognised in the intangible fixed assets as part of the significant influence investments.

64 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Software and data warehouse
Changes in intangible fixed assets in 2024 and in the costs of acquisition and
accumulated depreciation as at 31 December 2024 can be specified as follows:

31/12/2024

31/12/2023

€ ,000

€ ,000

Historical cost price as at 1 January
Accumulated amortisation as at 1 January
Balance as at 1 January

5,581
(3,867)
1,714

4,553
(2,912)
1,641

Investments
Disposals
Amortisation
Movements in the year

801
(991)
(189)

1,028
(955)
73

Historical cost price as at 31 December
Accumulated amortisation as at 31 December
Balance as at 31 December

6,382
(4,857)
1,525

5,581
(3,867)
1,714

The intangible assets consist of acquired software. The software relates to an online portal for investors, a data warehouse and
software to develop an online partner portal to enhance our cooperation with and monitoring of partners. Software is amortised
in three years.

8. Tangible fixed assets
Changes in tangible fixed assets
Changes in tangible fixed assets in 2024 and in the costs of acquisition and
accumulated depreciation as at 31 December 2024 can be specified as follows:
IT equipment

Furniture

Installation
solar assets

Total 2024

Total 2023

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

1,802
(1,605)
196

1,689
(1,246)
443

3,721
(1,082)
2,640

7,211
(3,933)
3,278

7,237
(3,554)
3,683

93
(118)
2
(23)

12
(97)
(85)

(149)
(176)
57
115
(37)
(191)

105
(149)
(391)
57
117
(37)
(299)

150
(9)
(433)
9
(166)
43
(406)

1,897
(1,723)
173

1,701
(1,343)
358

3,687
(1,238)
2,449

7,285
(4,305)
2,980

7,211
(3,933)
3,278

Historical cost price as at 1 January
Accumulated depreciation as at 1 January
Balance as at 1 January
Investments
Disposals
Depreciation
Depreciation disposals
Prior year adjustments depreciation
Exchange rate adjustment historical cost
Exchange rate adjustment accumulated depreciation
Movements in the year
Historical cost price as at 31 December
Accumulated depreciation as at 31 December
Balance as at 31 December

The useful life of the furniture is estimated at five years on average. Information technology (IT) equipment is depreciated in
three years. Installations consisting of solar panels are depreciated in 20 years.

Consolidated financial statements 65

9. Development financing
Changes in development financing outstanding
Can be specified as follows:

Outstanding as at 1 January
Disbursements
Capitalised interest and dividends
Less:
- repayments
- write-offs
Equity divestments
Deduct historical cost significant influence investments
Goodwill on disbursement significant influence investment
Net asset value significant influence investments
Exchange rate adjustments
Outstanding as at 31 December

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

1,084,716
474,670
(1,034)
(443,951)
(20,678)
(17,830)
(540)
(686)
30,631
1,105,297

1,007,248
530,464
(1,838)
(404,137)
(11,114)
(10,225)
(5,677)
2,927
(22,932)
1,084,716

Breakdown of development financing outstanding
Development financing outstanding by sector as at 31 December

1%
5%

6%
17%

17%

Financial inclusion*
Agriculture

77%

77%

Renewable energy
Other

2024

2023

* Including microfinance and SME finance

Development financing outstanding by region as at 31 December

4%

3%
21%

21%
45%

Latin America
& the Caribbean

47%

Asia

30%

Africa

28%

Other

2024

66 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

2023

Development financing outstanding by type of financing as at 31 December

14%

14%

Loans

86%

Equity investments

2024

86%
2023

Development financing outstanding by type of currency as at 31 December

18%

19%
USD

1%

4% 1%

46%

6%

INR
EUR
MXN

24%
2024

Maturity of development financing outstanding
Can be specified as follows:

Instalments maturing < 1 year
Instalments maturing > 1 < 5 years
Instalments maturing > 5 years
Significant influence investments
Equity investments
Balance as at 31 December

1% 2%
4%
6%

BOB

21%

XOF
Other

47%

2023

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

439,437
499,861
11,520
2,337
152,143
1,105,297

434,121
490,467
10,520
2,927
146,681
1,084,716

Consolidated financial statements 67

Movement schedule loans
Can be specified as follows:

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

935,107
450,742
(1,034)
(443,951)
(20,678)
30,631
950,817

862,414
512,349
(1,838)
(404,137)
(10,744)
(22,937)
935,107

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

Balance as at 1 January
Additions/disbursements
Write-offs
Disposals
Deduct historical cost significant influence investments
Goodwill on disbursement significant influence investment

149,608
23,928
(17,830)
(540)

144,833
18,120
(370)
(10,225)
(5,677)
-

Net asset value significant influence investments
Outstanding as at 31 December

(686)
154,480

2,927
149,608

Balance as at 1 January
Disbursements
Capitalised interest and dividends
Less:
- repayments
- write-offs
Exchange adjustments
Balance as at 31 December

Movement schedule equity investments
Can be specified as follows:

In 2024 a sale agreement has been signed to sell Ueno bank investments. The sale will be done in four tranches, first tranche
in June 2025, thereafter in June 2026, June 2027 and June 2028. The capital outstanding value of this investments is EUR 6.3
million and is equal to the expected exit price. Central bank approval has been received on 6th of March.

Schedule equity investments < 20% and > 20% and significant influence
Can be specified as follows:
< 20%

> 20%

€ ,000

€ ,000

135,683
(17,651)
118,032

16,461
(5,333)
11,128

Historical cost value
Net asset value significant influence investments
Impairments
Outstanding as at 31 December

Significant
influence
€ ,000

Total 2024

Total 2023

€ ,000

€ ,000

-

152,144
2,337
(22,984)
131,497

146,679
2,927
(16,115)
133,491

2,337
2,337

The significant influence investments were purchased for an amount of EUR 6.3 million. The goodwill has been recognised under
the intangible fixed assets (Note 7) for an amount of EUR 2.6 million.
In the table above the equity investments are split into equity investments where the Society holds less than 20% of the shares,
equity investments where the Society holds more than 20% of the shares and equity investments in which the Society has
significant influence. In the table below the equity investments where the Society has significant influence are disclosed.

68 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Significant influence investments
The Society had significant influence in the following
equity investments as at 31 December 2024

Inclusive Guarantee, France
Fertiplant East Africa Ltd., Kenya
Cafédirect Plc, United Kingdom
Agroserv Industrie S.A., Burkina Faso

Participation
2024
€ ,000

Participation
2023
€ ,000

26.6%
30.0%
27.7%
33.1%

26.6%
30.0%
27.7%
31.3%

The table above includes all equity investments in which the Society has significant influence. The shareholding percentages
of 20% and above are one of the indicators of significant influence.
During the year 2024 the Society has recognised the significant influence investments against net asset value accounting method.
Movement schedule significant influence investments
Can be specified as follows:

Balance as at 1 January
Result for the year
Additions/disbursements
Impairments
Divestment
Balance as at 31 December

Movement schedule Outgrower SPV
Can be specified as follows:

Balance as at 1 January
Result for the year
Impairments
Divestment
Balance as at 31 December

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

2,927
(686)
96
2,337

3,368
923
(514)
(850)
2,927

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

-

850
(850)
-

The Society sold its investment in Outgrower SPV in 2023.

Consolidated financial statements 69

Movement schedule Inclusive Guarantee
Can be specified as follows:

Balance as at 1 January
Result for the year
Impairments
Balance as at 31 December

Movement schedule Cafédirect Plc
Can be specified as follows:

Balance as at 1 January
Result for the year
Impairments
Balance as at 31 December

Movement schedule Agroserv Industrie S.A.
Can be specified as follows:

Balance as at 1 January
Result for the year
Impairments
Balance as at 31 December

Loan loss provision and impairments on equity
Can be specified as follows:

Loan loss provision
Impairments equity
Balance as at 31 December

70 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

545
(502)
43

340
205
545

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

723
(683)
40

1,146
91
(514)
723

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

1,659
498
96
2,253

1,032
627
1,659

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

(63,604)
(22,984)
(86,588)

(45,437)
(16,114)
(61,551)

Movement schedule loan loss provision
Can be specified as follows:

Balance as at 1 January
Additions
Releases
Exchange rate adjustments
Less:
- write-offs
Balance as at 31 December

Movement schedule impairments equity investments
Can be specified as follows:

Balance as at 1 January
Additions
Reclass to significant influence investments
Reversals
Less:
- write-offs
Balance as at 31 December

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

(45,437)
(45,290)
6,914
(469)
(84,282)
20,678
(63,604)

(44,963)
(20,731)
8,578
935
(56,181)
10,744
(45,437)

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

(16,114)
(13,542)
6,672
(22,984)
(22,984)

(20,711)
(2,008)
764
5,471
(16,484)
370
(16,114)

Fair value of development financing loan portfolio
• The development financing loan portfolio consists of local currency loans and hard currency loans, usually with semi-annual
or annual equal instalments.
• The interest rates charged to partners on local currency loans consist of base rates (local interbank or other appropriate
base rates), plus an additional margin for risk and costs, and are usually comparable to local market offerings. The majority
of the Society’s local currency loans are floating rate based.
• The interest rates charged to partners on hard currency loans are usually fixed interest rates for the full loan period and
consist of base rates plus an additional margin for risks and costs. The Society uses the applicable base rates of the
currencies the Society offers (Euribor, Libor, swap rates and similar rates).
• The loans have an average contractual maturity of approximately four years (2023: four years and one month).
• An analysis of the recoverability of the loans is performed quarterly and a provision for possible losses on the development
financing loan portfolio is made.
• When all possible efforts to collect a loan have been exhausted and a loan is deemed uncollectible by the Special Collections
unit, a (partial) write-off proposal is prepared. The final write-off decision is made by the Credit Committee. The write-off
policy has not changed compared to 2023.
The fair value of the development financing loan portfolio at least equals the book value, which is estimated at EUR 887.2
million (2023: EUR 892.6 million).

Fair value of development financing equity portfolio
• Equity investments are valued at the lower of cost or realisable value; the significant influence investments are valued at net
asset value.
• The Society operates in countries where there is no active market for these equity investments. The fair value is determined
taking into account suitable valuation methods such as book value multiples, price-earnings ratios and recent sale prices of
similar investments.
It is estimated that the fair value of the equity portfolio at least equals the book value, which is estimated at EUR 129.2 million
(2023: EUR 130.6 million).

Consolidated financial statements 71

10. Other securities

Changes in other securities can be specified as follows:

Balance as at 1 January
Investments
Divestments
Impairment
Exchange adjustments
Balance as at 31 December

The other securities consist of:

GLS Mitgliedschaf Genossenschaftsanteile
TCX, The Currency Exchange Fund N.V., the Netherlands
GLS Gemeinschaftsbank, Germany
Banca Popolare Etica, Italy
Ekobanken, Sweden
Other
Total other securities

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

18,743
(4,895)
13,848

23,386
(4,643)
18,743

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

13,138
500
100
9
101
13,848

4,896
13,138
500
100
10
99
18,743

Fair value of other securities
The fair value of the investment in TCX as at 31 December 2024 amounted to USD 28.2 million (EUR 27.2 million) for 27 shares
(2023: USD 24.5 million (EUR 22.1 million) for 27 shares). With respect to the other investments in the portfolio, the fair value at
least equals the carrying amount.

11. Other financial assets

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

Hedge contracts financial institutions 1
Staff loans 2

3,823
-

8,886
8

Total

3,823

8,894

Summary of other financial assets:

1

The fair value of these hedge contracts and other details are disclosed in Note 32.

2

All housing loans to staff are covered by mortgages. Market interest rates are charged on staff loans.

72 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Summary of deferred tax assets:

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

456
456

230
230

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

13,718
11,443
5,610
3,280
1,913
1,799

12,403
20,033
342
3,177
1,612

Tax asset Maanaveeya
Total

12. Receivables and other current assets

The receivables maturing within one year can be specified as follows:

Accrued interest on development financing net of allowance
Collateral hedging
Hedging contracts (refer to Note 32)
Current CIT Maanaveeya
Hedging receivable
Interest receivable
- face value
- less: allowance for uncollectability
Amounts prepaid
Value added tax and wage taxes
Staff loans 1
Sundry receivables
Balance as at 31 December
Changes in the allowance for uncollectability are specified as follows:

Balance as at 1 January
Additions
Releases
Write-offs from allowance
Exchange adjustment
Balance as at 31 December

1

4,764
(2,965)

4,667
(3,055)
1,001
593
7
1,273
40,637

368
486
13
1,223
39,656

2024
€ ,000

2023
€ ,000

(3,055)
(3,513)
487
3,159
(43)
(2,965)

(3,754)
(3,520)
266
3,881
72
(3,055)

All housing loans to staff are covered by mortgages. Market interest rates are charged on staff loans.

Fair value of receivables

The fair value of the current assets approximates to the book value.

Consolidated financial statements 73

13. Cash and cash equivalents

Can be specified as follows:

Cash and cash equivalents including time deposits maturing within one year
Balance as at 31 December

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

62,467
62,467

58,772
58,772

The Society maintains its funds in banking institutions in Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America and the United States. The time
deposits included in cash and cash equivalents as at 31 December 2024 all mature in 2025.
The Society has a credit facility agreement with two Dutch banks. The facility amounts to EUR 100.0 million. This facility is
subject to the following conditions:
• Audited financial statements should be provided within six months of year-end.
• Within 45 days after quarter-end a report with consolidated financial statements and the financial statements of Maanaveeya
should be provided.
• A report setting out the net asset value of the participations of the Society denominated in euro should be provided within
30 days after month-end.
• The leverage ratio should not exceed 10%.
• The solvency ratio of the Society should be at least 70% (2024: 91%).
• Without the written permission of the credit institution, the Society is not allowed to sell or securitise fixed assets or establish
mortgages or other encumbrances on fixed assets (except for transactions taking place in the normal course of business)
or to issue guarantees for liabilities of third parties.

14. Member and investor capital
The Society raises its equity capital by issuing participations to participants. There is no limit to the number of participations
that can be issued. Participations are issued with a nominal value of EUR 200, CAD 200, CHF 250, GBP 150, SEK 2,000 or
USD 200.
Participations are available for subscription by both members and other eligible investors alike. Participations do not confer
on their holder the right to attend the General Meeting or the right to vote. Voting rights are attached to the membership of
the Society. Membership of the Society is restricted to eligible organisations that meet the criteria as set out in the Society’s
Articles of Association. A participant does not become a member by acquiring or holding participations.
The participations are the most subordinated class of instruments issued by the Society. The Articles of Association of the
Society and the participation terms provide the same terms and conditions to the Society’s holders and no preferential terms
are provided, irrespective of the currency denomination. This means that the participations are identical in subordination.
The foregoing also applies in the event of dissolution of the Society. As such, all instruments are presented as equity in the
consolidated financial statements. Where the Society repurchases participations, the consideration paid is deducted from
equity capital. Where such participations are issued, any consideration received is included in equity capital.

Net asset value
As at 31 December 2024, the net asset value per participation amounted to EUR 211.74 (2023: EUR 214.03). Following the
Participation Terms, the decision to honour issuance and redemption requests received in a calendar month is made on the
fifth working day of the following month, and the issuance and redemption orders are registered as of the first of that month.
This means that requests for issuance and redemption of participations received during December 2024 will be registered
as of 1 January 2025. There were EUR 4.8 million of participations to be issued and EUR 3.9 million of participations to be
redeemed to members as at 31 December 2024. On 8 January 2025 the Managing Board decided to issue and redeem the
requests submitted in December 2024.
The net asset value, the issue price and the redemption price of a participation are determined by the Society as set out in
the Participation Terms.

Implementation of a new capital-raising model
The Society historically raised its equity capital through the issuance of shares to its members. Only members were allowed
to hold shares. Other investors invested indirectly in the Society, largely through the support associations.

74 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

As of 1 March 2023, the Society implemented a new capital-raising model, which entails on the one hand the incremental
introduction in the relevant jurisdictions of one direct investment opportunity offered to both members and other eligible
investors, in the form of the participations, and on the other hand the phasing out of shares. As of 1 June 2023, all outstanding
shares were converted to participations. Until the last share was converted, the Society had the obligation to redeem shares
and participations within five years after a redemption request (although the redemption price could be below nominal price
or even nil). Now that all shares have been converted to participations, this obligation no longer applies. As a result, the
cooperative is in a better position to protect the value of the participations in potential times of stress.
As at the end of December 2024, all investors, except for investors in the Netherlands, are holders of participations and
invest directly in the Society rather than indirectly via a support association. Investors in the Netherlands currently still invest
indirectly in the Society through an instrument derived from the participations and issued by the relevant support association,
Oikocredit Nederland Fonds.

Can be specified as follows:
Member and investor capital shares
Balance as at 1 January
New euro shares issued
New shares in other currencies issued
Redemption of euro shares
Redemption of shares in other currencies
Transfers to participations EUR
Transfers to participations in other currencies
Exchange adjustments - transfer to participations
Balance as at 31 December

Member and investor capital participations
Can be specified as follows:
Member and investor capital participations
Balance as at 1 January
Transfers from shares EUR
Transfers from shares in other currencies
New euro participations issued
New participations in other currencies issued
Redemption of euro participations
Redemption of participations in other currencies
Exchange adjustments - transfer from shares
Exchange adjustments
Balance as at 31 December
Of which

- euro participations
- participations in other currencies (at original exchange rate)

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

-

1,110,692
1,301
653
(78,650)
(2,482)
(934,621)
(107,542)
10,649
-

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

1,000,786
26,204
3,129
(59,281)
(3,857)
42
967,023

934,621
107,542
15,848
2,688
(46,862)
(2,417)
(10,649)
15
1,000,786

870,531
96,472

903,622
97,164

Consolidated financial statements 75

15. General reserve

Can be specified as follows:

Balance as at 1 January
Appropriation of the prior-year results
Paid dividend
Balance as at 31 December

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

84,647
1,246
(5,240)
80,653

83,548
6,760
(5,661)
84,647

For the restricted exchange fluctuation reserve please refer to the Society financial statements in Note 46.

16. Reserves for subsidised activities
Reserves for subsidised activities
Can be specified as follows:

Capacity building reserve
Balance as at 31 December

General reserve
Can be specified as follows:

Balance as at 1 January
Additions to / releases from fund
Allocation of prior year result
Allocation between funds
Balance as at 31 December

76 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

2,884
2,884

2,514
2,514

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

2,514
370
2,884

1,828
172
191
323
2,514

17. Funds for subsidised activities
The funds below originate from grants received for purposes described for each separate fund below.

Funds for subsidised activities, capacity building funds
Can be specified as follows:

Capacity building funds
Balance as at 31 December

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

1,244
1,244

1,340
1,340

Capacity building (CB) and guarantee funds
Balance as
at 1 January
2024
€ ,000

Addition to/
(released from)
fund
€ ,000

Allocation
of prior
year result
€ ,000

Allocation
between
funds
€ ,000

Balance as at
31 December
2024
€ ,000

CB - SSNUP / ADA project 1
CB - Alongside Hope (formerly known as the Primate’s World Relief Fund 2
CB - We Effect / SIDA 3
CB - Oikocredit Stiftung Deutschland (Client Self-Perception Survey) 4
CB - International Fund for Agricultural Development 5
CB - Enterprise Support Facility 6
597
CB - Innovation Support Facility 7
475
CB - Development Education & Advocacy facility 8
268
CB - PURE Empowerment Facility 9
1,340
Total

(30)
(24)
(42)
(96)

-

-

567
451
226
1,244

-

The Oikocredit International Foundation has been selected to participate in the Smallholder Safety Net Upscaling Programme (SSNUP), coordinated by the Swiss
Agency for Development and Cooperation, the Luxembourg Directorate for Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Affairs, and Ada Microfinance. This is a
10-year public- private partnership intending to support at least 10 million smallholder farmers in Africa, Asia and Latin America by boosting the development of
agricultural value chains.
2
Alongside Hope’s EUR 47,000 grant (recorded in current liabilities as non-allocated grants) is supporting the Client Self-Perception Survey programme that gives
a window into the real-world impact of the Society’s development finance and puts end-clients back at the centre of decision-making. The survey shows that our
partners’ financial and non-financial services and products are improving lives and empowering communities. By understanding the experiences of the people we
serve, we ensure our support stays relevant and responsive to their needs.
3
The Innovative Finance for Improved Livelihood Project aims to address the capacity weaknesses and opportunities of 30 farmer-based organisations (FBOs) in Kenya
and Uganda. The Small Credit Facility, managed by the Oikocredit International Foundation, offers short-term soft loans designed to provide first-time access to
finance for FBOs. This initiative seeks to strengthen their readiness for commercial loans and identify any capacity gaps..
4
The Client Self-Perception Survey was launched in 2021 with the aim of providing partners with actionable insights into how their clients perceived changes
happening in their lives. The project received EUR 160,000 of additional funding in 2024 (EUR 280,000 in 2023) to further expand its reach..
5
With support from the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), the Foundation brought the price risk management training to Rwanda and Honduras,
building on the project’s successes and lessons learned during its implementation in Latin America.
6
The Enterprise Support Facility (ESF) is a revolving fund, aimed to provide short-term loans at concessionary rates to organisations with an initial and early track
record of working to address the needs and/or opportunities of low-income people and their communities in a sustainable way.
8
The aims of the Innovation Support Facility and Development Education & Advocacy Facility are to stimulate innovation and to support connections between
‘developing’–’developed’, ‘north’–’south’, privileged–underprivileged communities and societies. These facilities will offer grant funding to partner and non-partner
organisations across Africa, Asia and Latin America. The initial funding of EUR 0.8 million was provided by the Church of Sweden.
9
The Productive Use of Renewable Energy (PURE) Empowerment Facility will finance projects that facilitate the distribution of PURE products and services and
support locally owned and operated businesses in Sub-Saharan Africa. These earlier stage initiatives will unlock the potential of rural micro-entrepreneurs and
smallholder farmers and bolster their and their communities’ resilience. The Orde van de Minderbroeders’s EUR 539,000 donation will serve as second loss layer,
serving as catalytic derisking capital.
1

Consolidated financial statements 77

18. Provisions

1

Can be specified as follows:

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

Restructuring provision 1
Total provisions

202
202

289
289

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

289
(105)
18
202

92
(69)
266
289

This provision as at 31 December 2024 reflects costs associated with the closure of some country offices.

Movement schedule provisions

Balance as at 1 January
Withdrawal
Additions
Balance as at 31 December

19. Non-current liabilities

Can be specified as follows:

Bank loans
Hedge contracts (refer to Note 32)
Total other non-current liabilities

2024

Remaining term
> 1 year < 5 years

Remaining term
> 5 years

2023

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

27,022
9,184
36,206

27,022
9,184
36,206

-

17,881
699
18,580

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

17,880
54,996
(9,716)
(37,226)
1,088
27,022

15,092
29,383
(4,257)
(21,264)
(1,074)
17,880

Repayment obligations due within 12 months of the end of the financial year are included under the current liabilities.

Changes in bank loans can be specified as follows:

Balance as at 1 January
New loans
Repayments
Reclassification to current liabilities
Exchange rate adjustments
Balance as at 31 December

Bank loans consist of the following:
• Loans with a total principal amount of INR 5.7 billion from financial institutions in India maturing in 2025 for INR 3.3 billion
(included under current liabilities), in 2026 for INR 1.94 billion and for the years after 2026 for INR 0.5 billion. The loans carry
an average interest rate of 10.08%.

78 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Fair value of long-term liabilities
The majority of the bank loans are at variable interest rates. Therefore, the fair value of the current liabilities approximates to
the book value. Bank loans for investment in development financing have been invested in the Society’s development financing
portfolio.

20. Current liabilities

All current liabilities mature within one year and can be specified as follows:

Long-term loans expired or expiring within one year 1
Hedge contracts (refer to Note 32)
Hedging premiums payable
Investments/redemptions investors
Accrued personnel expenses
Accounts payable
Other taxes payable 2
Non-allocated grants
Dividend payable
Provision hedges
Collateral hedging
Accrued expenses, sundry liabilities 3
Balance as at 31 December

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

37,226
13,144
5,082
3,617
2,566
2,369
2,139
1,239
509
72
2,827
70,790

21,264
2,906
3,168
2,364
2,169
1,478
2,153
1,093
12
11,510
3,333
51,450

Consists of amounts maturing within one year from loans taken from financial institutions in India for EUR 37.2 million.
The growth of the Society has led Oikocredit to thoroughly review its tax and legal structures in the countries where it has offices, to ensure there is a structure in place
to pay Oikocredit’s fair share of taxes. In 2024 the accrual did not change compared to the previous year. The total tax accrual amounts to EUR 2.1 million.
3
Mainly consists of account payables and accruals.
1
2

Fair value of current liabilities
Applicable interest rates of the current liabilities are in accordance with applicable market interest rates. Therefore, the fair
value of the current liabilities approximates to the book value.

21. Commitments and contingencies not included in the balance sheet
Rental agreement
With effect from 1 July 2019 the Society renewed its rental agreement for the office building in Amersfoort; the agreement will
end on 31 December 2029. The yearly rent payments amount to EUR 354,968 up until 31 December 2029. The yearly rent is
indexed. For this agreement, a bank guarantee was issued for EUR 73,754.

Hedging agreements
The hedging agreements with our financial counterparts include the obligation to post collateral under a credit support annex
(CSA). This implies that changes in the market value of the derivative portfolio per counterparty may result in a daily exchange of
cash collateral with that counterparty.
In the CSA’s with TCX, Rabobank, ING, and NatWestMarkets, the thresholds, for both the Society and the counterparty are set at
zero.In the CSA with Standard Chartered Bank, the threshold for the Society is set at USD 3.0 million, and for Standard Chartered
Bank, it is set at USD 50.0 million.
As at 31 December 2024 the market value of the hedge contracts with Standard Chartered Bank was USD 5.4 million negative.
As at 31 December 2024 the market value of the hedge contracts with TCX was USD 4.8 million negative. The market value of
the derivative portfolio with Rabobank was EUR 2.4 million negative. The market value of the hedge contracts with ING was
EUR 3.8 million negative. The market value of the hedge contracts with NatWest was EUR 5.0 million positive. For posted cash
collateral, refer to Note 12.

Consolidated financial statements 79

Operational lease agreement
Maanaveeya Development & Finance Private Limited in India has three operational lease agreements. The leased assets are solar
panels that are visible on our balance sheet (refer to Note 8). The expected cash flows from the lease agreements amount in total
to INR 182.7 million (EUR 2.05 million). The last contract will end in 2028.

India tax
Maanaveeya Development & Finance Private Limited in India filed appeals to the Commissioner of Income Tax/High Court of
Judicature at Hyderabad for the state of Telangana, challenging demand notices totalling INR 151.28 million (EUR 1.70 million).
This amount is not recorded as a tax liability.
The Society filed appeals to the Commissioner of Income Tax at New Delhi, challenging demand notices totalling INR 1.071 million
(EUR 12.0 million). This amount is not recorded as a tax liability.

Committed not yet disbursed
The Society had committed EUR 141.2 million (2023: EUR 225.6 million) to its partners as at 31 December 2024 that was not yet
disbursed in 2024.

Unfunded participation agreements
The Society signed an unfunded participation agreement with Stichting Titleholder AGRI3. The Society granted a loan of USD
2 million to a partner (‘Loan Agreement’) and AGRI3 will share the payment default risk on a pari passu basis with the Society in
an amount up to USD 0.8 million (up to 40% of the outstanding facility) in an unfunded participation agreement. Therefore, AGRI3
instructed Rabobank to issue an irrevocable standby letter of credit for an amount of USD 0.8 million in favour of the Society that
allows the latter to request immediate payment if the Society’s partner under the loan agreement falls into payment default.

22. Interest and similar income

Can be specified as follows:

Interest on development financing portfolio
Total interest and similar income

2024
€ ,000

2023
€ ,000

94,706
94,706

88,395
88,395

2024
€ ,000

2023
€ ,000

(7,830)
1,444
(6,386)

(4,275)
2,785
(1,490)

23. Interest and similar income and expenses

Can be specified as follows:

Interest paid on long-term loans, current accounts and other short-term liabilities
Interest received on bank accounts and time deposits
Total

80 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

24. Income from equity investments

Can be specified as follows:

2024
€ ,000

2023
€ ,000

Result from sale of equity investments
Sale Banco de Desarrollo Rural
Sale Ivoire Coton S.A.
Partial sale Annapurna Finance Private Limited
Earn-out of Nicafrance - Nicafrance Outgrower Holdings
Sale Cafetalera Nicafrance S.A.
Sale North East Small Finance Bank (RGVN)
Sale Anatrans S.A.
Sale Aashiyaan Housing & Development Finance
Sale Aseguradora Tajy Propiedad Cooperative S.A. de Seguros
Sale Banco Pyme de la Comunidad
Sale Nicafrance - Nicaragua Outgrower Holdings
Sale Avante
Total result from the sale of equity investments

6,531
4,643
3,933
77
(3,197)
(1,635)
(1,000)
(208)
(73)
9,071

(1,924)
(2,123)
(2,308)
(6,355)

Dividends
Management fees funds
Total income from equity investments

7,543
(161)
16,453

4,624
(128)
(1,859)

2024
€ ,000

2023
€ ,000

(686)
(686)

350
923
(514)
759

25. Result from significant influence investments
Movement schedule significant influence investments
Can be specified as follows:

Prior year adjustment/opening adjustment
Result for the year
Impairment
Balance as at 31 December

Consolidated financial statements 81

26. Grant income
Grants

Grants recognised from Orde van de Minderbroeders
Grants recognised from Appui au développement autonome a.s.b.l.
Grants recognised from Oikocredit Stiftung Deutschland
Grants recognised for project Governance and Succesion Planning for Family-Owned SMEs
Grants recognised for project Feasibility and Market Analysis of WASH Sector in Africa
Grants recognised for project AgriGRADE - KE Pilot - ScopeInsight
Grants recognised for project AgriGRADE - CoE - ScopeInsight
Grants recognised for project Market Study of WASH Financing in Indonesia and Market Strategy
Grants recognised for project AgriGRADE - TZ Pilot - ScopeInsight
Grants recognised from We Effect
Grants recognised from Agricultural Fund for Development
Grants recognised from Plan International Canada Inc. (WISE)
Other grants recognised
Total grants

2024
€ ,000

2023
€ ,000

539
521
206
104
101

381
110
-

79
61

-

25
25
18
213
1,893

14
201
15
215
936

Grants are received according to contractual agreements with partners or from other parties in the form of general donations.
Grant income from partners means that they were spent during the year. Unused grants (from contractual agreements) are
accounted for under current liabilities (non-allocated grants). The general grants are not repayable if underutilised; in the event
of unutilised grants they will be deployed to other capacity building related causes. Therefore these grants have been disclosed
in full and are not treated as part of the non-allocated grants. Other grant income is recognised in the year received.
Funds were donated to the Foundation by investors for an amount of EUR 213,000. The Foundation received EUR 0.5 million from
SSNUP / ADA for various projects supporting smallholder farmers and boosting the development of agricultural value chains.
The incoming amount was added to the non-allocated grants and are being utilized based on actual costs spend.
During 2024 funds were also received from: Oikocredit Stiftung Deutschland for the Client Survey (EUR 160,000); Alongside Hope
(formerly known as Primates World Relief and Development Fund) (EUR 47,000); We Effect / SIDA for the IFIL project in Kenya and
Uganda (EUR 31,000); and the International Fund for Agricultural Development (EUR 55,000) for the price risk management training
project in Rwanda and Honduras.

27. Other income and expenses

Can be specified as follows:

Exchange rate differences
Hedge premiums
Hedge provision
Dividends and sales from other securities
Income from fees on development financing portfolio
Other
Total

82 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

2024
€ ,000

2023
€ ,000

132
(24,522)
(72)
482
2,962
172
(20,846)

(5,506)
(26,263)
4
2,894
1,561
(27,310)

28. Personnel
The number of employees who were directly or indirectly employed by the Society at the end of 2024 on the basis of full-time
equivalents (FTEs) amounted to 280 (2023: 277). This number includes staff based outside the Netherlands employed by the
regional and country offices in the outflow market and the offices in the inflow market (2024: 139 FTE; 2023: 138 FTE). Of the
total FTEs (280), 59% were women, 41% men and 0.0% non-binary. Of the total Managing Board FTEs (four), 50% were women
and 50% men. Of the Supervisory Board (10), 60% were women and 40% men. The Supervisory Board members do not count as
employees.

Can be specified as follows:

Salaries
Social security charges
Pension charges
Other allowances (13th month, holiday allowance)
Expenses temporary staff
Settlements
All other personnel costs
Total personnel expenses

2024
€ ,000

2023
€ ,000

(18,432)
(2,600)
(1,532)
(1,351)
(1,076)
(106)
(1,743)
(26,840)

(14,637)
(2,199)
(1,365)
(1,209)
(2,769)
(120)
(2,214)
(24,513)

2024
€ ,000

2023
€ ,000

(4,102)
(3,112)
(2,674)
(2,278)
(1,730)
(1,253)
(1,191)
(159)
(922)
(17,421)

(4,294)
(2,563)
(2,562)
(2,793)
(1,289)
(1,069)
(1,818)
(35)
(2,417)
(18,840)

In the personnel expenses EUR 0.2 million is related to capacity building.

29. General and other expenses

Can be specified as follows:

IT-related expenses (including development costs, new software)
Consultancy expenses including audit fees
Office expenses
Contribution to support associations
Marketing expenses
Capacity building expenses
Legal expenses
Expenses AGM and board
All other general expenses
Total general and other expenses

Consolidated financial statements 83

Auditor’s fees

The following auditor’s fees were charged by KPMG Accountants N.V. to the Society, as referred to in Article 2:382a (1)
and (2) of the Netherlands Civil Code, and expensed in the income statement in the reporting period:

Audit of financial statements
Assurance services
Consulting services
Total audit fees

2024
€ ,000

2023
€ ,000

(391)
(391)

(209)
(67)
(276)

2024
€ ,000

2023
€ ,000

(6,867)
(38,326)
(3,026)
317
(47,902)

3,458
(12,108)
(3,254)
1,074
(10,830)

30. Additions to loss provisions and impairments

Can be specified as follows:

Additions to and releases from provisions against loan losses and equity impairments
- equity impairments
- on principal of loans
- on interest
- Recoveries on write-offs
Total

The equity impairments show an addition of EUR 6.9 million which is caused by releases of EUR 6.7 million and additions of
EUR 13.5 million. The releases are caused by investments that were sold that resulted in a loss of EUR 6.1 million (refer to
Note 24) and the partial release of one of the fund investments for EUR 0.5 million. The investments that resulted in a loss
were 100% impaired and therefore released from the equity impairments when the sales were recognised.
The additions to and releases from the loan loss provision were mainly because of the macroeconomic situation in Bolivia,
for two large partners in Peru and for loans to partners in Africa and in the agriculture sector.

31. Taxes
The tax rate in the Netherlands is 25.8% (2023: 25.8%), with an initial rate of 19% on the first EUR 200,000 of taxable income.
The tax rate in India for our subsidiary is 25.2%.
As mentioned in Note 1 (General information) above, the offices in Brazil, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Kenya and Nigeria are
incorporated as legal entities, but due to the limited size of their assets, these offices are regarded as if they were owned
branch offices. The growth of the organisation in past years led the Society to thoroughly review its operational set-up
in the countries where it has offices, to ensure that there is a structure in place to pay the Society’s fair share of taxes. The
taxes of EUR 0.2 million relate to these offices and no income taxes are expected to be due in the Netherlands.
The effective tax rate of the Society is 2.4% and differs from the applicable tax rate. This is due to the fact that our subsidiary
in India has recorded an income of EUR 0.3 million concerning taxes. The Society has fiscal loss carryforwards. Next to that,
there are participation exemptions applicable on results on equity investments which are the permanent difference between
commercial and fiscal results.

84 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Can be specified as follows:

Taxes regional and country offices
Taxes Maanaveeya Development & Finance Private Limited
Additions to tax accruals
Releases from tax accrual
Total taxes

2024
€ ,000

2023
€ ,000

(193
301
(14)
94

(104)
(2,935)
(141)
746
(2,434)

32. Use of financial instruments

Balance sheet item

Product

Oikocredit has entered into the following derivatives
to cover its exposure:
Non-current assets
FX derivatives
Cross currency swaps

Current assets
FX derivatives
Cross currency swaps

Non-current liabilities
FX derivatives
Cross currency swaps

Current liabilities
FX derivatives
Cross currency swaps

31/12/2024
Notional
€ ,000

31/12/2024
Carrying
amount
€ ,000

31/12/2023
Carrying
amount
€ ,000

Under hedge accounting
Under hedge accounting
Total

57,636

3,823
3,823

8,886
8,886

Under hedge accounting
Under hedge accounting
Total

3,221
55,047

1,128
4,482
5,610

20,033
20,033

Under hedge accounting
Under hedge accounting
Total

431
253,234

(26)
(9,158)
(9,184)

(699)
(699)

Under hedge accounting
Under hedge accounting
Total

173,538
170,372

(5,494)
(7,650)

(2,907)
-

(13,144)

(2,907)

The total book value of the hedge contracts as at 31 December 2023 was EUR 12.9 million negative (2023: EUR 25.3 million
positive) and the market value was EUR 11.0 million negative (2023: EUR 20.6 positive). The hedge-effectiveness test
established that some contracts were ineffective during 2024, for which a provision was formed of EUR 72,000. In 2023 the
hedge-effectiveness showed all contracts to be effective.

Consolidated financial statements 85

33. Related party transactions
For transactions with the Managing Board and Supervisory Board, please refer to Note 34 (Remuneration).

Transactions with Oikocredit International Foundation during the year
The Society charged an administration fee to the Foundation amounting to EUR 30,000 (2023: EUR 30,000).

Transactions with Oikocredit International Share Foundation
The Share Foundation was liquidated in December 2023.
In 2023 the total costs accounted in the Society related to the Share Foundation amounted to EUR 17,000.
In 2023, funds were donated via the Share Foundation by investors to the Oikocredit International Foundation totalling
EUR 215,000 from dividends and investments in depository receipts.

Transactions with Maanaveeya Development & Finance Private Limited
The Society charged interest to Maanaveeya on external commercial borrowing totalling EUR 7.9 million (2023: EUR 9.0 million).
The Society has a service level agreement with Maanaveeya where it has been agreed that Maanaveeya will provide support
services in relation to the equity investment activities of the Society in India. Maanaveeya will charge the Society its net cost for
these services plus a mark-up. The total costs charged in 2024 were INR 18.2 million (EUR 199,000).

Transactions with support associations and members
The Society granted a contribution for costs to the support associations during 2024 of EUR 2.3 million (2023: EUR 2.8 million).
Oikocredit Stiftung Deutschland donated EUR 160,000 to the Client Self-Perception Survey.
The Society has members that are also partners of the Society. The members that are also partners and with which there
were transactions in the years 2024 and 2023 are listed below. The transactions consist of disbursements, interest and capital
repayments in the years 2024 and 2023:

Name of partner

Country

Alternativa, Centro de Investigación Social y Educación Popular
Calcar, Cooperative Agraria de Responsabilidad Ltda Carmelo
Chajul, Asociación Chajulense Va'l Vaq Quyol
Unaitas Sacco Society Ltd
Total

Peru
Uruguay
Guatemala
Kenya

Name of partner

Country

Alternativa, Centro de Investigación Social y Educación Popular
Chajul, Asociación Chajulense Va'l Vaq Quyol
CLU, Central Lanera Uruguaya
Unaitas Sacco Society Ltd
Total

Peru
Guatemala
Uruguay
Kenya

86 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Sum of disbursements, interest
and capital repayments in 2024
63,208
77,199
2,061,903
2,804,169
5,006,479

Sum of disbursements, interest
and capital repayments in 2023
134,389
2,167,090
1,921,422
37,466
4,260,367

Amounts owed by and to Oikocredit 1

Oikocredit International Foundation
Maanaveeya Development & Finance Private Limited (owed to Oikocredit)

1

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

(6,761)
79,095

(6,943)
84,835

Market interest rates are charged on these amounts.

34. Remuneration
Supervisory Board remuneration policy
The Society offers Supervisory Board members compensation for their travel, administrative expenses and loss of income due
to the extensive time commitment involved in serving on the board. The Supervisory Board remuneration is unchanged since
2022and is composed of four elements:
a) Basic annual fee: basic fixed fee for all board members and a fixed fee for the chairperson to cover their work as a board
member on the basis of 15 board meeting days per year and additional online meetings, including preparation and follow-up.
b) Additional annual fees:
- Additional committee chair fee: fixed fee for chairing a Supervisory Board committee.
c) Variable fees:
- (Inter-)continental travel compensation fee: fixed fee per eight working hours lost with a fixed amount per return travel to
compensate for loss of time due to intercontinental travelling to Supervisory Board (committee) meetings.
d) Expense reimbursement: compensation for actual expenses incurred in relation to the Society’s activities, provided that
these expenses are documented (e.g. travel and accommodation).
The total compensation/remuneration for the Supervisory Board in 2024 amounted to EUR 147,000 (2023: EUR 107,000).

Remuneration Managing Board

The remuneration can be specified as follows:

Gross salary, holiday and year-end allowance
Expense allowances
Pension contributions
Total

2024
€ ,000

2023
€ ,000

875
158
1,033

813
157
970

Staff of Oikocredit globally
The Society believes in remunerating its employees in a fair and equitable manner. This means that the remuneration of its
staff worldwide should be aligned with the values and nature of the Society, acknowledging people’s diverse experience and
educational backgrounds, and elements of both the financial sector as well as the social sector at an international or national
level, depending on the job requirements.

Performance reward
In 2023 and 2024 no performance rewards were allocated to staff. On 1 January 2020 a new remuneration policy was
implemented. Under this policy, variable pay, such as a performance reward, is no longer part of the remuneration package.
However, non-financial rewards are granted to some staff members in cases of exceptional performance (such as specific
trainings or additional time-off).

Supervisory Board and Managing Board holdings in Oikocredit capital
Some Supervisory Board and Managing Board members have indirect holdings in the Society’s participations amounting to
EUR 39,604 at 31 December 2024 (2023: EUR 34,000). These holdings do not have any voting rights.

Consolidated financial statements 87

35. Subsequent events
Subsequent events are events that provide further information on the actual situation at the balance sheet date and that
appear before the financial statements are prepared and recognised in the financial statements. There are no subsequent
events that qualify as an adjusting event to be recognised in the financial statements 2024.

88 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Society financial statements

Agri Evolve is a family-run social enterprise
operating in the Rwenzori region of western
Uganda with a mission to create long-term social impact
in rural communities. With Oikocredit support since 2023,
Agri Evolve works with about 20,000 smallholder farmers,
many of them certified Rainforest Alliance coffee growers.
Agri Evolve supports the whole supply chain, from seedling production
to buying, processing and exporting high-quality coffee and other
crops. Oikocredit’s pre-financing enables it to pay farmers promptly
and fairly for their harvest before it sells the coffee abroad.
Mary Kanyonyi, pictured, rakes coffee beans as part of the drying process.

Society financial statements 89

Society balance sheet
(Before appropriation of net income)

Balance sheet

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

4,118

4,134

509

619

890,786
(83,355)
807,431

901,649
(59,982)
841,667

Consists of:
Loans (net of loss provision)
Equity (net of impairments)
Significant influence investments

675,935
129,159
2,337

708,173
130,567
2,927

Investments in group companies
Other securities
Other financial assets
Total financial assets

76,097
15,928
73,382
165,407

63,907
20,823
74,696
159,426

Total fixed assets

977,466

1,005,846

CURRENT ASSETS
Receivables and other current assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Total current assets

47,246
57,425
104,671

58,782
53,431
112,213

TOTAL

1,082,137

1,118,059

Notes

37

Fixed ASSETS
Intangible fixed assets

38

Tangible fixed assets

39

40
41
42

43
44

Financial assets
Development financing
Total development financing outstanding
Less: - loss provision and impairments

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

90 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Society balance sheet
(Before appropriation of net income)

Balance sheet
Notes
MEMBER AND INVESTOR CAPITAL AND RESERVES

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

967,023
80,678
(3,814)
(8,793)
1,035,094

1,000,786
84,672
(4,351)
1,246
1,082,353

45
46
46

Member and investor capital
General reserve
Restricted exchange fluctuation reserve
Undistributed net income for the year

17

PROVISIONS

202

289

48

NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES

9,184

699

49

CURRENT LIABILITIES

37,657

34,719

1,082,137

1,118,059

TOTAL

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

Society financial statements 91

Society income statement
Income statement

2024
€ ,000

2023
€ ,000

9,862

7,886

Other results

(18,448)

(7,140)

INCOME BEFORE TAXATION
Taxes
INCOME AFTER TAXATION

(8,586)
(207)
(8,793)

746
500
1,246

Notes
RESULTS
40

Results participation in group companies after taxes

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

92 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Notes to the
Society financial statements
36. General
The Society financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the statutory provisions of Part 9, Book 2, of the
Netherlands Civil Code and the firm pronouncements in the Guidelines for Annual Reporting in the Netherlands as issued by
the Dutch Accounting Standards Board (Dutch GAAP).
The accounting policies of the Society financial statements and the consolidated financial statements are the same.
The participating interests in group companies are accounted for in the separate financial statements according to the equity
accounting method on the basis of net asset value. For details we refer to the accounting policy for financial fixed assets in the
consolidated financial statements.

Share of result of participating interests
This item concerns the Society’s share of the profit or loss of these participating interests. Results on transactions involving the
transfer of assets and liabilities between the Society and its participating interests, and mutually between participating interests
themselves, are eliminated to the extent that they can be considered as not realised.
For the accounting policies of the Society financial statements, refer to the summary of accounting policies as included in the
notes to the consolidated financial statements.

37. Intangible fixed assets
Intangible fixed assets
Can be specified as follows:

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

2,593
1,525
4,118

2,420
1,714
4,134

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

Historical cost price as at 1 January
Accumulated amortisation as at 1 January
Balance as at 1 January

3,252
(832)
2,420

3,252
(507)
2,745

Investments
Disposals
Amortisation
Movements in the year

539
(366)
173

(325)
(325)

Historical cost price as at 31 December
Accumulated amortisation as at 31 December
Balance as at 31 December

3,791
(1,198)
2,593

3,252
(832)
2,420

Goodwill
Software and data warehouse
Balance as at 31 December

Changes in goodwill
Can be specified as follows:

Goodwill has been recognised in the intangible fixed assets as part of the significant influence investments.

Society financial statements 93

Software and data warehouse
31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

Historical cost price as at 1 January
Accumulated amortisation as at 1 January
Balance as at 1 January

5,581
(3,867)
1,714

4,553
(2,912)
1,641

Investments
Disposals
Amortisation
Movements in the year

801
(991)
(189)

1,028
(955)
73

Historical cost price as at 31 December
Accumulated amortisation as at 31 December
Balance as at 31 December

6,382
(4,857)
1,525

5,581
(3,867)
1,714

Changes in intangible fixed assets in 2024 and in the costs of acquisition and
accumulated depreciation as at 31 December 2024 can be specified as follows:

The intangible assets consist of acquired software. The software relates to an online portal for investors, a data warehouse and
software to develop an online partner portal to enhance our cooperation with and monitoring of partners. Software is amortised
in three years.

38. Tangible fixed assets

Changes in tangible fixed assets in 2024 and in the costs of acquisition and
accumulated depreciation as at 31 December 2024 can be specified as follows:

Historical cost price as at 1 January
Accumulated depreciation as at 1 January
Balance as at 1 January
Investments
Disposals
Depreciation
Depreciation disposals
Movements in the year
Historical cost price as at 31 December
Accumulated depreciation as at 31 December
Balance as at 31 December

IT equipment
€ ,000

Furniture
€ ,000

Total 2024
€ ,000

Total 2023
€ ,000

1,763
(1,583)
180

1,680
(1,241)
439

3,442
(2,823)
619

3,304
(2,581)
722

89
(111)
(21)

7
(96)
(89)

96
(206)
(110)

139
(242)
(103)

1,852
(1,693)
159

1,687
(1,337)
350

3,539
(3,030)
509

3,442
(2,823)
619

The useful life of the furniture is estimated at five years on average. Information technology (IT) equipment is depreciated in
three years.

94 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

39. Development financing
Changes in development financing outstanding
Can be specified as follows:

Outstanding as at 1 January
Disbursements
Capitalised interest and dividends
Less:
- repayments
- write-offs
Equity divestments
Deduct historical cost significant influence investments
Goodwill on disbursements significant influence investments
Net asset value significant influence investments
Exchange adjustments
Outstanding as at 31 December

Loan loss provision and impairments on equity
Can be specified as follows:

Loan loss provision
Impairments equity
Balance as at 31 December

Movement schedule loan loss provision
Can be specified as follows:

Balance as at 1 January
Additions
Releases
Exchange rate adjustments
Less: 		
- write-offs
Balance as at 31 December

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

901,649
333,532
(1,034)
(329,956)
(19,217)
(17,830)
(540)
(686)
24,869
890,787

848,811
395,590
(1,838)
(301,415)
(10,479)
(10,225)
(5,677)
2,927
(16,045)
901,649

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

(60,372)
(22,984)
(83,355)

(43,868)
(16,114)
(59,982)

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

(43,868)
(42,152)
6,847
(416)
(79,589)
19,217
(60,372)

(42,698)
(20,501)
8,430
792
(53,977)
10,109
(43,868)

Society financial statements 95

Movement schedule impairments equity investments
Can be specified as follows:

Balance as at 1 January
Additions
Reclass to significant influence investments
Reversals
Less: 		
- write-offs
Balance as at 31 December

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

(16,114)
(13,542)
6,672
(22,984)
(22,984)

(20,711)
(2,008)
764
5,471
(16,484)
370
(16,114)

Refer to Note 9 of the consolidated financial statements for further detailed information on consolidated development financing.

40. Group companies
Net asset value investments in group companies

Maanaveeya Development & Finance Private Limited, Hyderabad, India 1
Balance as at 31 December

1

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

76,097
76,097

63,907
63,907

 he investment in Maanaveeya Development & Finance Private Limited, Hyderabad, India, consists of 100% of the ordinary shares amounting to INR 2.5 billion
T
(228,652,711 shares). One share is held by the Managing Director of Maanaveeya.

Maanaveeya Development & Finance Private Limited
Can be specified as follows:

Balance as at 1 January
Result for the year
Exchange adjustments
Balance as at 31 December

96 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

63,907
9,862
2,328
76,097

58,701
7,886
(2,680)
63,907

41. Other securities

Changes in term investments can be specified as follows:

Balance as at 1 January
Investments during the year at cost
Impairment
Divestments during the year
Exchange adjustments
Balance as at 31 December

Can be specified as follows:

GLS Alternative Microfinance Fund
TCX, The Currency Exchange Fund N.V., the Netherlands
GLS Gemeinschaftsbank, Germany
Banca Popolare Etica, Italy
Ekobanken, Sweden
Other
Total other securities

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

20,823
(4,895)
15,928

25,466
(4,643)
20,823

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

15,218
500
100
9
101
15,928

4,896
15,218
500
100
10
99
20,823

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

69,559
3,823
73,382

65,801
9
8,886
74,696

42. Other financial assets

Summary of other financial assets:

Loans to group companies
Staff loans 1
Hedge contracts financial institutions
Balance as at 31 December

1

All housing loans to staff are covered by mortgages. Market interest rates are charged on staff loans.

Loans to group companies consists of the following:
• External commercial borrowing (ECB) Loan 1 with Maanaveeya Development & Finance Private Limited with a total principal
amount of INR 1.05 billion (EUR 11.8 million). The loan carries an interest rate of 10.91%. The first repayment of the loan is due
in February 2025, which is presented under the receivables (Note 43) and the last repayment is due in February 2026.
• ECB Loan 4 with Maanaveeya Development & Finance Private Limited with a total principal amount of INR 2.5 million
(EUR 28.0 million). The loan carries an interest rate of 9.83%. The first repayment of the loan is due in December 2025,
followed by half-yearly repayments, with the last repayment in June 2028.
• ECB Loan 5 with Maanaveeya Development & Finance Private Limited with a total principal amount of INR 2.5 million
(EUR 28.0 million). The loan carries an interest rate of 9.99%. The first repayment of the loan is due in June 2028,
followed by quarterly repayments, with the last repayment due in September 2029.
• ECB loan 6 with Maanaveeya Development & Finance Private Limited with a total principal amount of INR 1.0 million
(EUR 11.2 million). The loan carries an interest rate of 9.71%. The first repayment of the loan is due in December 2029,
followed by half yearly repayments, with the last repayment due in June 2031.

Society financial statements 97

43. Receivables and other current assets

The receivables maturing within one year can be specified as follows:

Accrued interest on development financing net of allowance
Collateral hedging
Loans to group companies expiring within 1 year
Hedging contracts (refer to Note 32)
Interest receivable
- face value
- less: allowance for uncollectability
Hedging receivable
Amounts prepaid
Accrued interest ECB loans MV
Value added tax and wage taxes
Staff loans ¹
Receivable Share Foundation
Sundry receivables
Balance as at 31 December

1

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

13,029
11,443
9,536
5,610
1,941

11,849
19,034
20,033
2,267

4,764
(2,823)

4,667
(2,400)
1,913
1,001
941
593
7
1,232
47,246

3,177
368
990
486
13
565
58,782

All housing loans to staff are covered by mortgages. Market interest rates are charged on staff loans.

Fair value of receivables
The fair value of the current assets approximates to the book value.

44. Cash and cash equivalents
The Society maintains its funds in banking institutions in Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America and the United States. The time
deposits included in cash and cash equivalents as at 31 December 2024 all mature in 2025.
The Society has a credit facility agreement with two Dutch banks. The facility amounts to EUR 100.0 million. This facility is
subject to the following conditions:
• Audited financial statements should be provided within six months of year-end.
• Within 45 days after quarter-end a report with consolidated financial statements and the financial statements of Maanaveeya
should be provided.
• A report setting out the net asset value of the participations of the Society denominated in euro should be provided within
30 days after month-end.
• The leverage ratio should not exceed 10%.
• The solvency ratio of the Society should be at least 70% (2024: 96%).
• Without the written permission of the credit institution, the Society is not allowed to sell or securitise fixed assets or establish
mortgages or other encumbrances on fixed assets (except for transactions taking place in the normal course of business)
or to issue guarantees for liabilities of third parties.

45. Member and investor capital
For details about the member and investor capital, please refer to Note 14 of the consolidated financial statements.

98 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

46. General and other reserves
General reserves
Can be specified as follows:

Balance as at 1 January
Appropriation of prior-year results
Paid dividend
Balance as at 31 December

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

84,672
1,246
(5,240)
80,678

83,572
6,760
(5,661)
84,672

The Society deducted EUR 5.2 million from the general reserve, to be able to pay out a dividend of 0.5%.
Restricted exchange fluctuation reserve
Can be specified as follows:
Balance as at 31 December
Revaluation of hedges on subsidiary
Revaluation of subsidiary
Balance as at 31 December

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

(4,351)
(1,791)
2,328
(3,814)

(4,227)
2,554
(2,678)
(4,351)

The restricted exchange fluctuation reserve is a legal reserve. The restricted exchange fluctuation reserve represents the
accumulation of gains and losses from currency translation on investments in group companies. This reserve also contains
the results (gains, losses and premiums) on the hedge contracts concluded on investment in group companies. As of
September 2024 we ceased to hedge our open-ended investment in Maanaveeya.

47. Differences in equity and net income between the Society and consolidated
financial statements

Changes in the difference between the Society and consolidated equity
and profit/loss in the financial year can be specified as follows:
Equity according to society financial statements
Reserves Oikocredit International Foundation
Reserves for subsidised activities Oikocredit International Foundation
Funds for subsidised activities and model costs Oikocredit International Foundation
Result for the year Oikocredit International Foundation
Prior year adjustment
Group equity and funds according to consolidated financial statements

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

1,035,094
3
2,884
1,244
644
(27)
1,039,841

1,082,353
3
2,514
1,340
370
(26)
1,086,555

Society financial statements 99

48. Non-current liabilities

Can be specified as follows:

Hedge contracts (refer to Note 32,
consolidated financial statements)
Total non-current liabilities

2024

Remaining term
> 1 year < 5 years

Remaining term
> 5 years

2023

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

€ ,000

9,184

9,184

-

669

9,184

9,184

-

669

Repayment obligations due within 12 months of the end of the financial year are included under the current liabilities.

Fair value of long-term liabilities
The majority of the bank loans are at variable interest rates. Therefore, the fair value of the current liabilities approximates to the
book value. Loans for investment in development financing have been invested in the Society’s development financing portfolio.

49. Current liabilities
Current liabilities
All current liabilities mature within one year and can be specified as follows:

1
2

31/12/2024
€ ,000

31/12/2023
€ ,000

Hedge contracts
Group companies
Hedging premiums payable
Investments/redemptions investors
Accrued personnel expenses
Accounts payable
Other taxes payable 2

13,144
6,761
5,083
3,617
2,566
2,278
2,139

2,907
6,926
3,168
2,364
2,168
1,400
2,153

Dividend payable
Provision hedges
Non-allocated grants
Collateral hedging
Accrued expenses, sundry liabilities 1
Balance as at 31 December

509
72
40
1,448
37,657

12
11,510
2,111
34,719

 ainly consists of account payables and accruals.
M
The growth of the Society has led Oikocredit to thoroughly review its tax and legal structures in the countries where it has offices, to ensure there is a structure in place to
pay Oikocredit’s fair share of taxes. In 2024, the accrual did not change compared to the previous year. The total tax accrual amounts to EUR 2.1 million per 31 December 2024.

Fair value of current liabilities
Applicable interest rates of the current liabilities are in accordance with applicable market interest rates. Therefore, the fair
value of the current liabilities approximates to the book value.

50. Commitments not included in the balance sheet
For other commitments not included in the balance sheet please refer to the consolidated financial statements Note 20.

51. Subsequent events
Subsequent events are events that provide further information on the actual situation at the balance sheet date and that
appear before the financial statements are prepared and recognised in the financial statements. There are no subsequent
events that qualify as an adjusting event to be recognised in the financial statements 2024.

100 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Other information
Proposal for allocation of net income
With respect to the allocation of net income, the Society’s Articles of Association determine the following (Article 45):
‘The net profits shall be allocated by the General Meeting after receiving the proposal of the Managing Board.’ Such proposal
is subject to approval by the Supervisory Board (Article 40.3).
The Managing Board will make the following proposal to the Annual General Meeting in 2025 with regard to 2024 net income.

Allocation of net income 2024
The Managing Board proposes to appropriate the net income as follows:

Dividend distribution

2024
€ ,000
-

Net income 2024

(8,793)

Proposal to be deducted from the general reserve

(8,793)

In the Annual Report 2023 the below table was included:

Allocation of net income 2023
The Managing Board proposes to appropriate the net income as follows:

2023
€ ,000

Dividend distribution

5,279

Net income 2023

1,246

Proposal to add to the general reserve

(4,033)

101

Independent auditor's report
To: the General Meeting of Oikocredit, Ecumenical Development Cooperative Society U.A

Report on the audit of the financial statements included in the annual report
Our opinion
We have audited the financial statements 2024 of Oikocredit, Ecumenical Development
Cooperative Society U.A, based in Amersfoort.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial
position of Oikocredit, Ecumenical Development Cooperative Society U.A as at 31 December
2024 and of its result for the period 1 January 2024 up to and including 31 December 2024 in
accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
The financial statements comprise:
1 the consolidated and society balance sheet as at 31 December 2024;
2 the consolidated and society income statement for the period 1 January 2024 up to and
including 31 December 2024; and
3 the notes comprising a summary of the accounting policies and other explanatory information.

Basis for our opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on
Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the 'Our
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements' section of our report.
We are independent of Oikocredit, Ecumenical Development Cooperative Society U.A in
accordance with the ‘Wet toezicht accountantsorganisaties’ (Wta, Audit firms supervision act), the
'Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten' (ViO, Code
of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and other
relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the
'Verordening gedrags- en beroepsregels accountants' (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics).
We designed our audit procedures in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a
whole and in forming our opinion thereon. The information in respect of fraud and noncompliance with laws and regulations and going concern was addressed in this context, and we
do not provide a separate opinion or conclusion on these matters.
We believe the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis
for our opinion.

Information in support of our opinion
Audit response to the risk of fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations
In section 6 ‘Risk management’ of the annual report, the management board describes its
procedures in respect of the risk of fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations.

KPMG Accountants N.V., a Dutch limited liability company registered with the trade register in the Netherlands under number
33263683, is a member firm of the global organization of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Limited, a
private English company limited by guarantee.

102 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

As part of our audit, we have gained insights into the Company and its business environment,
and assessed the design and implementation of the Company’s risk management in relation to
fraud. Our procedures included, among other things, assessing the Company’s code of conduct,
whistleblowing procedures, incidents register and its procedures to investigate indications of
possible fraud and non-compliance. Furthermore, we performed relevant inquiries with
management, those charged with governance and other relevant functions, such as Internal
Audit, Legal Counsel and Compliance where deemed appropriate. We have also incorporated
elements of unpredictability in our audit and involved forensic specialists in our audit procedures.
As part of our audit procedures, we:

— obtained an understanding of how the company uses information technology (IT) and the

impact of IT on the financial statements, including the potential for cybersecurity incidents to
have a material impact on the financial statements;

— assessed other positions held by Management Board members and/or other employees and

paid special attention to procedures and governance/compliance in view of possible conflicts
of interest;

— evaluated investigation reports on indications of possible fraud and non-compliance; and
— evaluated legal confirmation letters.
In addition, we performed procedures to obtain an understanding of the legal and regulatory
frameworks that are applicable to the Company and identified the following areas as those most
likely to have a material effect on the financial statements:

— anti-money laundering and terrorist financing law; and
— data protection law.
We evaluated the fraud and non-compliance risk factors to consider whether those factors
indicate a risk of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In accordance with the information presented above and the applicable auditing standards, we
have identified the following fraud risks that are relevant to our audit, including the relevant
presumed risks laid down in the auditing standards and responded as follows:
Management override of controls (a presumed risk)
Risk: Management is in a unique position to manipulate accounting records and prepare
fraudulent financial statements by overriding controls that otherwise appear to be operating
effectively.
Responses:

— We evaluated the design and the implementation of internal controls that mitigate fraud risks,
such as processes related to journal entries, estimates and unusual transactions.

— We performed a data analysis of high-risk journal entries and evaluated key estimates and

judgments for bias by the Company’s management. Where we identified instances of
unexpected journal entries or other risks through our data analytics, we performed additional

2

103

audit procedures to address each identified risk, including testing of transactions back to
source information.
— We identified and selected journal entries and other adjustments made at the end of the
reporting period for testing.

Audit response to going concern
The management board has performed its going concern assessment and has not identified any
going concern risks. To assess the management board’s assessment, we have performed, inter
alia, the following procedures:

— we considered whether the management board’s assessment of the going concern risks
includes all relevant information of which we are aware as a result of our audit; and

— we analysed the company’s financial position as at year-end and compared it to the previous
financial year in terms of indicators that could identify going concern risks.

The outcome of our risk assessment procedures did not give reason to perform additional audit
procedures on management’s going concern assessment.

Report on the other information included in the annual report
In addition to the financial statements and our auditor's report thereon, the annual report contains
other information.
Based on the following procedures performed, we conclude that the other information:

— is consistent with the financial statements and does not contain material misstatements;
— contains all the information regarding the management report and the other information as
required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.

We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained
through our audit of the financial statements or otherwise, we have considered whether the other
information contains material misstatements.
By performing these procedures, we comply with the requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the
Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720. The scope of the procedures performed is less
than the scope of those performed in our audit of the financial statements.
The Managing Board is responsible for the preparation of the other information, including the
management report, in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, and other
information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.

Description of the responsibilities for the financial statements
Responsibilities of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board for the financial
statements
The Managing Board is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial
statements in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Furthermore, the
Managing Board is responsible for such internal control as the Managing Board determines is

3

104 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the Managing Board is responsible for
assessing the company's ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting
framework mentioned, the Managing Board should prepare the financial statements using the
going concern basis of accounting unless the Managing Board either intends to liquidate the
Cooperative or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The Managing
Board should disclose events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the
company's ability to continue as a going concern in the financial statements.
The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the company's financial reporting process.

Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
Our objective is to plan and perform the audit engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain
sufficient and appropriate audit evidence for our opinion.
Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means we
may not have detected all material errors and fraud during our audit.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or errors and are considered material if, individually or in the
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken
on the basis of the financial statements. The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of
our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located at
the website of de 'Koninklijke Nederlandse Beroepsorganisatie van Accountants' (NBA, Royal
Netherlands Institute of Chartered Accountants) at: https://www.nba.nl/siteassets/tools-enondersteuning/standaardpassages/eng_algemeen_20241203.pdf
This description forms part of our independent auditor's report.
Amstelveen, 28 March 2025
KPMG Accountants N.V.

P.J. Smit RA
05: A:No / B:Yes / C:No

4

105

106 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Strategic partners and relevant networks

www.svenskakyrkan.se

www.africanguaranteefund.com

www.agrigrade.org

www.alongsidehope.org

www.aquaforall.org

www.avca-africa.org

www.bundesinitiative-impact-investing.de

www.cerise-sptf.org

www.cric-online.org

www.dfc.gov

www.e-mfp.eu

www.fairclimatefund.nl

www.fairtrade-deutschland.de

www.fairtrade.at

www.centerforfinancialinclusion.org

www.forum-ng.org

www.gabv.org

www.thegiin.org

www.gogla.org

www.habitat.sv

www.idhsustainabletrade.com

www.mf-rating.com

www.nabimpactinvesting.nl

www.opportunity.org

www.pwrdf.org

www.sida.se

www.solidaridad.nl

www.ada-microfinance.org

107

Contact information
International office

Regional offices

Branches

T +31 33 422 40 40
F +31 33 465 03 36
E info@oikocredit.org

Latin America & the Caribbean

Austria

americalatina@oikocredit.org

Oikocredit Austria (Vienna)
office@oikocredit.at

Berkenweg 7
3818 LA Amersfoort
The Netherlands

africa@oikocredit.org

France

Southeast Asia

Oikocredit France (Paris)
france@oikocredit.org

Africa

sea@oikocredit.org
PO Box 2136
3800 CC Amersfoort
The Netherlands

India
maanaveeya@oikocredit.org

Oikocredit’s presence and focus countries

Focus countries
Oikocredit offices

108 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

Germany
Oikocredit Deutschland
(Frankfurt am Main)
info@oikocredit.de

Support associations
Austria
• Oikocredit Austria (Vienna)
austria@oikocredit.at

Belgium
• Oikocredit-be vzw (Brussel/Bruxelles)
vzw-asbl@oikocredit.org

France
• Oikocredit Centre Alpes Rhône (Grenoble)
car@oikocredit.org
• Oikocredit France Est (Strasbourg)
francest@oikocredit.org
• Oikocredit Franche-Comté Bourgogne &
Mediterrannée (Audincourt)
franche-comte@oikocredit.org
• Oikocredit Ile de France & Ouest (Paris)
iledefranceouest@oikocredit.org

Germany

The Netherlands

• Oikocredit Baden-Württemberg (Stuttgart)
baden-wuerttemberg@oikocredit.de
• Oikocredit Bayern (Nürnberg)
bayern@oikocredit.de
• Oikocredit Hessen-Pfalz (Frankfurt am Main)
hessen-pfalz@oikocredit.de
• Oikocredit Niedersachsen-Bremen (Braunschweig)
niedersachsen-bremen@oikocredit.de
• Oikocredit Norddeutschland (Hamburg)
norddeutschland@oikocredit.de
• Oikocredit Ostdeutscher Förderkreis (Berlin)
ostdeutsch@oikocredit.de
• Oikocredit Westdeutscher Förderkreis (Bonn)
westdeutsch@oikocredit.de

• Oikocredit Nederland (Utrecht)
nederland@oikocredit.nl

Italy

Spain
• Oikocredit Catalunya (Barcelona)
catalunya@oikocredit.org
• Oikocredit Euskadi (Bilbao)
euskadi@oikocredit.org
• Oikocredit Andalucía (Sevilla)
andalucia@oikocredit.org

Switzerland
• Oikocredit deutsche Schweiz (Winterthur)
deutsche.schweiz@oikocredit.ch
• Oikocredit Suisse Romande (Lausanne)
suisse.romande@oikocredit.org

• Oikocredit Südtirol (Brixen)
suedtirol@oikocredit.org

Countries in which Oikocredit actively attracts investments

In these countries individuals and organisations can invest in Oikocredit.

109

Text and production: Oikocredit staff, Miles Litvinoff
Photographs: Makmende, Opmeer Reports, Philippe Lissac/GODONG
Design: Van Santen Productions

110 Oikocredit Annual Report 2024

This document was produced by Oikocredit, Ecumenical Development Cooperative Society U.A. (hereinafter to be called ‘the
Society’) with the greatest of care and to the best of its knowledge and belief at the time of writing. The opinions expressed in
this document are those of the Society at the time of writing and are subject to change at any time without notice. The Society
provides no guarantee with regard to its content and completeness and does not accept any liability for losses which might arise
from making use of this information. This document is provided for information purposes only and is for the exclusive use of the
recipient. It does not constitute an offer or a recommendation to buy or sell financial instruments or banking services and does not
release the recipient from exercising their own judgment. The recipient is in particular recommended to check that the information
provided is in line with their own circumstances with regard to any legal, regulatory, tax or other consequences, if necessary with
the help of a professional advisor. This document may not be reproduced either in part or in full without the written consent of the
Society. It is expressly not intended for persons who, due to their nationality or place of residence, are not permitted access to
such information under local law. Every investment involves risk, especially with regard to fluctuations in value and return.
It should be noted that historical returns and financial market scenarios are no guarantee of future performance. Investments in
foreign currencies involve the additional risk that the foreign currency might lose value against the investor’s reference currency.
The Society is a cooperative society (‘coöperatieve vereniging’) under the laws of the Netherlands.

111

www.oikocredit.org

Oikocredit’s vision is a global, just society
in which resources are shared sustainably
and all people are empowered with the
choices they need to create a life of dignity.

