Impact Report 2025

Fifty years of
evolving impact

Contents
In brief: numbers that matter
Foreword from the Managing Board
Celebrating Oikocredit’s 50th impactful year
Achieving impact for people and communities
How we work
Capacity building
The Client Self-Perception Survey
Supporting the Sustainable Development Goals
Focus sector: financial inclusion
Focus sector: agriculture
Focus sector: renewable energy
Community-focused projects
Global learning and advocacy
Support associations and volunteers
Partnering for impact

Kenneth Muhwez (front page, right), Managing
Director of Ugandan renewable energy
enterprise Solar Today, meets with a colleague
from Oikocredit’s Ugandan inclusive finance
partner Ebo Sacco. Solar Today and Ebo Sacco
work together to provide smallholder farmers
in Uganda with solar-powered water pumping
systems that improve water access, crop
production and incomes.

Kenneth Muhwez with one of
Solar Today’s water pumps.

All data in this Impact Report was correct at
31 December 2024 unless otherwise specified.
Text and production
Oikocredit staff and Miles Litvinoff
Photos
Opmeer Reports except those by
Philippe Lissac (pages 4 (top), 5, 8 (top left, bottom right),
Marina Weigl (page 19) and Marc Ehrmann (page 47).
Design
Torsten van Geest @ Bureau Paraaf
Copyright
© 2025 Oikocredit International

3
5
6
10
14
18
23
26
28
34
38
42
46
48
51

In brief: numbers that matter

€

1,105.3 million

7.64 million

487

Total development
financing outstanding

Partners financed

Financing by sector

Financing by region

EN

351,560

People employed by our
financial inclusion partners

4%

6%

Jobs created or sustained
through partners
supporting MSMEs1

21%

17%

45%

77%

Financial inclusion ²
Agriculture
Renewable energy

Agriculture:

600,560

Farmers reached
by Oikocredit’s
agriculture partners

Renewable energy:

118,870

Households gaining
access to clean energy

30%

Latin America and
the Caribbean
Asia
Africa
Other

Financial inclusion:
%

Financial inclusion:
%

of women clients reached
by our partners

of rural clients reached
by our partners

Financial inclusion:
million

Financial inclusion:
million

Clients reached by
our partners

MSMEs financed by
our partners

88

49

72

2.94

1. MSMEs = micro, small and medium enterprises.
2. Including microfinance and SME finance.
3

Oikocredit microfinance partner PEBCo Bethesda
provides savings, loans and non-financial services
to low-income economically active Beninois. Ahoyo
Hirmine Mahunam, aged 40 and married with two
children, uses credit from PEBCo Bethesda to buy
the textiles, perfumes and hats she sells at her shop
in Cotonou, Benin’s largest city.

Tablecloth weavers María Guamuch (in foreground)
and Prudencia Patzán (behind) at work. Prudencia
Patzán’s loans from our partner SHARE Guatemala
have helped her build her business, employing 25
home-based weavers. Prudencia’s daughter Evelyn
received a scholarship from SHARE to complete
primary school.

4

Foreword from the Managing Board
Oikocredit’s 50th anniversary this year is a
milestone worthy of reflection and celebration.
Since our founding in 1975, we have worked
alongside our partners, pioneers and investors
to pursue a vision that remains as bold and
relevant today as it was then: that finance
should serve people and communities, not just
capital and profit.
Oikocredit was not created to solve the world’s
problems in isolation. We were founded to challenge
the very assumptions that underpin traditional
financial systems and to prove that money can be
used to promote inclusion, cooperation and dignity.
In a time of deep global inequality, climate shocks
and growing mistrust in institutions, this founding
belief continues to guide us.
Since the 1970s, impact investing has moved from
the margins to the mainstream. What began as a
small circle of visionaries has now become an entire
sector. Yet, for all this growth, most investment
capital still seeks certainty, profits and short-term
returns. Oikocredit remains distinct because our
cooperative structure and values are not bound
by shareholder pressure or chasing the highest
return. Instead, we combine capital with deep local
presence and sector expertise to build long-lasting
partnerships with organisations and people often
overlooked by conventional finance.
We offer more than money. We invest time,
knowledge and trust in our partnerships. And we
measure our success not just in numbers but in the
resilience of a women’s loan group, the growth of a
smallholder farmers’ cooperative and the stability of
a renewable energy project in a rural community.
The real impact of our work lives in the stories of
our partners. This report shares many of these
stories and achievements while reaffirming our belief
that patient, purposeful finance can help shape more
inclusive and sustainable economies. It also reflects
our determination to stay close to the communities
we serve and adapt to their changing needs.
The story of Oikocredit is not just our story; it is a
shared vision of a fairer future. From microfinance to
agriculture, from clean energy to inclusive finance,
we continue to evolve with a clear purpose: to
challenge systems that prioritise profit over people,
and to demonstrate that finance, done differently,
can build a more just and sustainable world.
We are deeply grateful to all who have shared
this journey with us and to those who will carry it
forward into the next 50 years.

5

Celebrating
Oikocredit’s 50th
impactful year

Moments that shaped us

1978

A bold beginning
Oikocredit’s founding in 1975 embodied
what was then a radical idea: mobilising
investment capital for social good rather
than profit alone. Ecumenical in its origins,
from the beginning our cooperative sought
to develop an ethical investment channel
promoting peace, justice and solidarity.
Many sceptics raised their voices at the
time, but Oikocredit’s founders and original
members were determined to break
new ground.

What 50 years can build
Oikocredit has
disbursed

€

2,240

partner
organisations1

billion

75 countries

Our long-term commitment has helped extend
access to finance for millions of people who
live on low incomes, particularly women and
members of rural communities.

88%

Oikocredit’s first loan of USD 200,000 (about EUR
175,000 today) enabled 200 low-income hospital
workers in Tamil Nadu, India, to access home
loans. This early act of financial inclusion laid the
foundation for our long-standing work in India,
Southeast Asia and beyond.

Supporting

5.8

Across

Empowering
homeownership in India

of our
partners’ clients
are women

72%

1984

A grassroots movement
For the first time in Oikocredit’s history, our
support associations (page 48) held more
than half the cooperative’s share capital – a
development unforeseen when Oikocredit
was created. From the late 1970s onwards,
committed individuals had come together
in national and subnational associations in
Europe to raise funds in support of Oikocredit’s
operations, creating a grassroots movement that
has stayed vibrant to the present day.

live in
rural areas

This illustrates our continuing determination
to promote financial inclusion, equality and
sustainable development (page 26).

Scan or click on the QR code to
visit Oikocredit’s 50th anniversary
web page.
1. As of 30 June 2025
6

2000

Defying convention with
25 years of impact
Protecting partners
from currency risk
The creation of our local currency risk fund
enabled Oikocredit to provide loans in local
currencies in most countries, shielding partners
in lower-income countries from exchange rate
volatility and making our finance more accessible
and sustainable for them.

By our 25th anniversary, Oikocredit had proven
that values-driven finance works – thriving
against the odds and exceeding expectations.
“If you asked an engineer of aerodynamics
if a bumblebee could fly, he or she would
tell you ‘No’, because of its physical characteristics. Yet it does fly. If you had asked
a conventional banker in the 1970s whether
Oikocredit … would be a viable business, he
(most conventional bankers are men) would
have replied ‘Not a chance.’ Yet Oikocredit …
has taken off and, after 25 years of existence,
is flying at a speed and an altitude which
surprise even some of those who were enthusiastic about the original idea.”
– Rob van Drimmelen (author of Faith in
a Global Economy), writing in 2000

1999
2004

Laying the foundation
for impact in India

Mobilising funds for
holistic support
Oikocredit launched its International Support
Foundation (now called the Oikocredit
International Foundation) to mobilise funds
for technical assistance and capacity building
for our partners. Our capacity building work
with partners (page 18) is central to our holistic
approach to responsible financing, building
resilience and generating positive social value.

Oikocredit set up an Indian subsidiary,
Maanaveeya Development & Finance, to enhance
its presence in India. Maanaveeya, registered
with the Reserve Bank of India, is the channel
for Oikocredit’s loans to and investments in
microfinance institutions, small and medium
enterprises, agricultural cooperatives and
sustainable energy projects in India. By the end
of 2024, Maanaveeya’s partners were serving
more than 2 million clients. Remarkably, 95% of
these clients were women, and 75% represented
rural households.

1995

7

2019

Standing by partners
through crisis

Investing in a
greener future

During the Covid-19 pandemic, Oikocredit
provided essential support to partners with
training, loan rescheduling and a solidarity
fund offering direct grants. This helped our
partners continue their vital work through an
unprecedented global challenge. In May 2020,
Oikocredit launched a coronavirus solidarity fund
to support partners and their clients in acquiring
personal protective gear and sanitation materials
and to assist partners in conducting awareness
training for communities.

Oikocredit created a dedicated renewable
energy team to invest in solar, wind and small
hydropower projects in our focus countries
in Africa, Asia, and Latin America and the
Caribbean, supporting clean energy access and
sustainable development.

2014
2021

Leading in social
impact measurement
Following a pioneering approach, Oikocredit
began assessing partners’ environmental,
social and governance (ESG) performance in a
similar way to a financial audit at a time when
few others in our sector were doing anything
similar. We introduced a first version of our ESG
scorecard to evaluate microfinance institutions
against environmental responsibility, client
protection and good governance standards. A
few years later we developed ESG scorecards for
agriculture and renewable energy partners.

2008

8

Listening to the
people we serve
In 2021, Oikocredit and five inclusive finance
partners jointly initiated a digital survey to hear
directly from our partners’ clients about their
experience of change over the past 12 months.
This first ground-breaking Oikocredit Client SelfPerception Survey provided important insight
into clients’ lives to inform our work and that of
our partners.
The survey – now in its fifth year – has gone from
strength to strength and is today one of the
largest such surveys in our sector (page 23).

Partner focus
Oikocredit’s impact is rooted in durable partnerships
with local organisations that know their communities
well. By combining their insights and expertise with
our capital and capacity-building support, we cocreate locally relevant and sustainable solutions.
This partner-first approach has fuelled our growth
and deepened our effectiveness over the past
five decades.

2,232
2,025
1,751
1,355

714

379

25

20

20

15

20

10

20

05

20

00

20

95

20

90

19

85

19

80

107

28

19

5

19

0

75

249

19

“Kenyan savings and credit cooperative Unaitas has
been an Oikocredit partner since 1997. Unaitas has
grown in leaps and bounds from humble beginnings
to impact millions of lives. We are proud to be
associated with Unaitas’s growth and its focus on
smallholder farmers, low-income housing, and small
to medium enterprises.”
–C
 aroline Mulwa, Oikocredit’s Regional Director
for Africa

Cumulative partners

Community for change

Scan or click on the QR code to
watch our 50th anniversary video
about Oikocredit’s journey and the
power of cooperative impact around
the world.

Oikocredit’s impact over the past 50 years
has resulted from the dedication of its people –
members, investors, board members, staff and
volunteers – and its partners, whose shared
commitment continues to drive meaningful
change. As a cooperative, our structure is rooted
in solidarity, keeping our mission grounded and
accountable. In this United Nations International
Year of Cooperatives, we recognise how this
model continues to guide our work and unite a
global community around shared values.

“Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful
committed individuals can change the world.
In fact, it’s the only thing that ever has.”
– Margaret Mead

9

Site engineer Adeline Dusabimbabazi at work at one of ARC
Power’s solar plants. Launched in Rwanda and an Oikocredit
partner since 2023, ARC Power is transforming lives with
its solar-powered mini-grids and expanding operations into
Mozambique and Zambia.

Achieving impact for
people and communities
Oikocredit1 invests to create opportunities
for people living on low incomes and their
communities. As a social impact investor and
worldwide cooperative, our achievements
over five decades in promoting sustainable
development result from the work of our
members, investors, donors, partners, board
members, staff and volunteers.2
2025 is Oikocredit’s anniversary year – 50 years since
our founding in 1975 (page 6).
Our goal is to help build a globally just and
sustainable society where people can thrive. We do
this through partnerships with organisations that
invest in households and communities in Africa, Asia,
and Latin America and the Caribbean. We prioritise
social impact, safeguarding the environment and
generating fair financial returns for investors.

Our investing provides both financing and non-financial
support, such as capacity building, for our partners.
We carefully select, screen and monitor partners to
ensure alignment of values and social goals, and we
support partners in achieving their goals.
Together, we create impact by enabling low-income
people to strengthen and grow their enterprises,
increase their incomes, save money, insure their
assets, and access other resources they need.
Times of crisis hit low-income people hardest.
Today’s political and economic instability, inequality,
and threats from climate change and biodiversity
loss are no exception. We therefore partner
increasingly with organisations that assist low-income
communities in building resilience. This complements
our investments in financial inclusion, agriculture and
renewable energy.

1. Oikocredit Ecumenical Development Cooperative Society, which provides its members and investors with the opportunity
to invest in the development financing of its partners, and the Oikocredit International Foundation, which provides
capacity building support to current and potential partners, both belong to the Oikocredit group (‘Oikocredit’).
2. “Sustainability is about meeting the world’s needs of today and tomorrow by creating systems that allow us
to live well and within the limits of our planet” – European Environment Agency, 2025, Sustainability.
10

Member,
investor
and donor
community
Investments
in Oikocredit
Donations to
Oikocredit
Global learning
and advocacy

Oikocredit’s
operations
Financier
Capacity builder
Sector expert
Social innovator
and facilitator

Oikocredit’s
impact on
partners
Increased access
to financial
services
Organisational
capacity and
financial
sustainability

Our partners’
impact on
the people
they serve
Income resilience
Social justice
and inclusiveness
Environmental
sustainability
Community
infrastructure

Improved
lives of
low-income
people
and their
communities
A stronger
movement for
a fairer, more
sustainable world

Climate-smart
solutions

Input

Output

Outcome

Impact

How Oikocredit
creates impact
Since our mid-term strategy review in 2024,
we have added a further dimension to
our investing: climate-smart solutions that
contribute to community resilience, energy
efficiency and sustainable food systems.

To maximise our impact, we undertake partnerships
and projects in our focus sectors, in community
resilience-building, in our new climate-smart solutions
portfolio, and in our capacity building for current and
potential partners, as this report demonstrates.

Global learning and advocacy with our
support associations extend our impact
(pages 46 and 48). By engaging with our
cooperative members, investors, partners
and new audiences, we bring to light
the socioeconomic and environmental
challenges our partners and their clients
face. This not only builds understanding but
inspires people in higher-income countries
to make more informed decisions that help
improve the lives of the people we serve.

A good indication of our impact comes from the
people who have benefitted through our partnerships.
Eighty-one per cent of more than 48,000 clients
participating in our 2024 Client Self-Perception
Survey (page 23) indicated that Oikocredit’s partners
had a positive influence on their wellbeing. (Eighteen
per cent responded neutrally or did not know.) More
ENG
than half said their income had improved over the
past 12 months, and most of those who had savings
said their savings grew over the period.

v2

With the world experiencing what has been called
a polycrisis, we are more committed than ever to
maximising our impact alongside our community of
members, investors, donors and partners.
We remain dedicated to our guiding values and are
actioning new ways to enhance Oikocredit’s impact.

11

How we collect our data
Oikocredit’s strategy to maximise social impact
centres on the careful selection and monitoring of
our partners, focusing on organisations that align with
our mission and social goals. Our physical presence
in 10 focus countries enables us to develop valuable
partnerships, conduct monitoring visits and identify
needs for tailored technical assistance. We have
developed several tools to support our investment
cycle and collect relevant data at every stage of our
impact pathway.
We use our environmental, social and governance
(ESG) scorecards to ensure that Oikocredit engages in
relationships with organisations that share our goals
and values. We have tailored ESG scorecards for
each of our three focus sectors (financial inclusion,
agriculture and renewable energy). The scorecards
systematically cover ESG topics in line with our
investment criteria (which include emphasis on
reaching people with low incomes and supporting
women’s self-empowerment) while aligning with
industry standards and best practices.
We use the scorecards for partner screening, due
diligence, annual monitoring and learning. The cards
assess how responsible each organisation’s practices
are towards its clients (or members), staff and other
stakeholders. Our partners’ ESG scores generally
improve over time. More than 88% of partners with an
active investment at the end of 2024 ranked ‘strong’
or ‘excellent’ in terms of overall ESG performance.
The scorecards enable us to identify partners’
strengths, areas of risk and ways to improve.
We jointly develop action plans with partners
to mitigate risk.

Ebo Sacco, our Ugandan savings and credit
cooperative partner, provides loans to meet diverse
community needs, including water and sanitation
loans for smallholder farmers. In the photo, a client
makes a transaction at one of Ebo Sacco’s branches.

12

Each year, we also gather social and environmental
performance indicator data to measure how many
people our partners have reached through their
products and services and the annual results partners
achieve in sustainability areas. In 2025, out of 386
partners that met our monitoring criteria and were
invited to complete our 2024 performance survey, all
386 (100%) provided valid responses.
Our annual Client Self-Perception Survey (page 23)
supports partners in collecting data on clients’
perception of change in their lives. This helps us know
and demonstrate our partnerships’ impact on the
people and communities we serve, keeping clients’
priorities at the centre of our work and enabling our
partners to serve them even better.
The data we collect through these tools plays an
important role in supporting Oikocredit’s mission of
assisting low-income people and their communities
in improving their lives sustainably. We publish the
data in this report as evidence of our commitment
to social impact. And we use the data to build our
understanding of how we achieve our objectives. Our
research and impact evaluation help us identify what
we are doing well and decide whether and how to
continue or expand these activities. They inform our
organisational capacity development and the way we
work with our strategic, credit and equity partners.

100%

Partner survey
response rate

Investing for
impact since

1975

Our impact investing process

Scan or click on the
QR code to learn
more about our
partner selection.

1.

Partner
pre-selection
6.

2.

Learning &
improving

Screening
(due diligence)

5.

3.

Reporting &
analysis

Investment
decision
4.

Partner
monitoring
& support

Our carbon footprint analysis
Oikocredit calculates its annual carbon footprint in
line with its strategic ambition of maximising social
impact while safeguarding the environment and
generating fair financial returns for investors. We are
committed to protecting the environment across all
our activities, including our due diligence, investing
and capacity building.
In 2024, Oikocredit’s total carbon footprint from
Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, excluding financed
emissions, amounted to 953 tonnes of CO2 across all
the regions where we operate.1 Scope 3 (excluding
financed emissions) contributed 865 tonnes of CO2,
representing 91% of total emissions. Scope 1 and 2
emissions together accounted for 88 tonnes of CO2,
representing 9% of the total footprint. Our average

emissions per full-time equivalent (FTE) employee
from Scope 1, 2 and 3 (excluding financed emissions)
in 2024 amounted to 3.5 tonnes of CO2.
Oikocredit remains committed to addressing
climate change by reducing its carbon emissions
and offsetting its carbon impact by buying
FairClimateFund Fairtrade Gold Standard carbon
credits. We source these credits from projects
designed to simultaneously reduce greenhouse
gas emissions and contribute to the United Nations
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Through
these efforts, we aim to mitigate the environmental
consequences of our operations while actively
supporting sustainable initiatives.

1. See www.carbonneutral.com/news/scope-1-2-3-emissions-explained
13

How we work
Oikocredit provides loans, equity investments
and capacity building support (including
through our Client Self-Perception Survey) to
organisations serving low-income people and
communities across Africa, Asia, and Latin
America and the Caribbean. The funds that
our committed members, investors and donors
provide make this possible.
Oikocredit focuses its investments on three sectors:
financial inclusion (page 28), agriculture (page 34) and
renewable energy (page 38). As part of our 20222026 strategy, our community-focused investing
co-develops solutions that address the broader
environments that shape people’s lives (page 42), and
we are building a new investment portfolio of climatesmart solutions.
Our regional offices and on-the-ground network are
essential for selecting like-minded partners, fostering
long-term relationships and providing capacity
building (page 18). Oikocredit’s international team in
the field serves as our partners’ first point of contact
for financial, environmental and social performance
management and other support.
Our ambition is to help build strong and financially
sustainable social businesses and resilient
communities. Our support helps partners expand
their outreach and improve low-income people’s
access to important products and services.
We measure our impact by linking our social
performance data to our theory of change (‘How
Oikocredit creates impact’, page 11) and the United
Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
(page 26). Since 2020, we have supported increasing
numbers of financial inclusion partners – and in 2024
a renewable energy partner for the first time – in
undertaking our innovative Client Self-Perception
Survey (page 23). The survey gathers and reports
direct insights from partners’ clients about changes
in their lives, helping us identify and action areas for
improvement in our work.

Scan or click on the QR code to read our
post-review strategy brochure.

14

Total assets
million

€

1,147.0

€

1,105.3 million

Total financing with partners

Average financing per partner
million

€

487

Partners
financed

2.3

93

Cooperatives
financed

10 countries with
highest capital outstanding
in € millions
267

India

73

Kenya

65

Ecuador

63

El Salvador

52

Bolivia

43

Mexico

41

Guatemala

39

Peru

29

Nigeria

29

Costa Rica

32 focus countries
Oikocredit offices

Financing by sector

EN ¹

Financing by region
4%

6%

Type of financing
14%

21%

17%

45%

77%

Financial inclusion
Agriculture
Renewable energy

30%

86%

Latin America and
the Caribbean
Asia
Africa
Other

Loans
Equity investments

Our carbon footprint
tonnes

4

years

Average loan duration

280

FTE

Staff members

953

We continue to offset
our carbon footprint with
Fairtrade Gold Standard
carbon credits via the
FairClimateFund

15

Salina Maaka sorts coffee cherries for Agri Evolve, a family-run social enterprise in the Rwenzori region of Uganda
and an Oikocredit partner since 2023. Agri Evolve works with smallholder farmers and along the whole supply
chain with a special focus on high-quality speciality coffee.

16

Guadalupe Agespino Nena Alutriste (left) is the treasurer of a women’s loan group that our Mexican
microfinance partner FinLabor supports. FinLabor loan officer Eunice Ismerai Piña Alfonso watches
as Guadalupe calculates the weekly payment.

Strawberry farmer Eti, pictured with her son Ujang Karmana, has built a resilient business in Bandung,
Indonesia. She has transitioned from traditional vegetable crops to strawberry cultivation, which
provides a steadier income. Eti is a client of Oikocredit’s Islamic microfinance partner BMT ItQan.

17

Capacity building
Oikocredit has successfully provided capacity
building support to its partners since the 1990s.
As with our loans and equity investments, we
seek through capacity building to improve the
livelihoods of people living on low incomes and
their communities’ resilience. Our capacity

building helps current and prospective
partners in our focus sectors (financial
inclusion, agriculture and renewable energy)
strengthen their social, environmental and
financial performance and unlock their full
investment potential.

Generating impact
To maximise the impact of our capacity building,
we focus our involvement on four areas
within organisations:

• Governance: Effective high-level management

rules, practices, processes and structures are
essential to success. We help organisations acquire
the tools they need for robust governance.

• Internal management: We help organisations

optimise their day-to-day processes to achieve
tangible outcomes in line with their ambitions.

• Social and environmental performance

management: Our role is to strengthen
organisations’ capacity to integrate social and
environmental management in ways suited to their
organisational models and sectors.

• Climate change: Promoting and supporting

implementation of climate adaptation initiatives
that improve the resilience of current and
prospective partners’ clients and members and
their communities.

• Rural and farmer communities’ livelihoods:

Supporting initiatives to improve the livelihoods
of smallholder farmers and rural entrepreneurs
by enhancing their income-generating activities
through better business performance and greater
resilience at community level.

• Investability of focus sectors: Supporting

• Products and services: We support current and

organisations working in financial inclusion,
agriculture and renewable energy by combining
capacity building with a loan to help them build a
financial track record and pave the way to access
formal financing.

Oikocredit provides capacity building
services through three channels:

In addition to donations from our investors and
Oikocredit’s own contribution, our capacity
building activities benefit from funding from such
donors as:

prospective partners in developing, innovating and
refining their products and services, ensuring they
align closely with clients’ needs.

Business service providers: We identify knowledge
enhancement needs and connect specialised business
providers with local providers to strengthen the
local ecosystem.
Strategic partnerships: We connect our expertise in
investing in our focus sectors with expert capacity
building providers that work to improve organisations’
ability to access and use finance effectively. This
approach helps unlock investment readiness.
Learning and knowledge sharing: We encourage
current and prospective partners to share learning
and knowledge through webinars, training and on-site
visits as part of our knowledge-sharing community.

18

Our capacity building prioritises three
areas to help build resilience:

• African Guarantee Fund
• Alongside Hope
• IFAD (International Fund for
Agricultural Development)
• Oikocredit Stiftung Deutschland
• Plan International Canada
• Smallholder SustaiNability Upscaling
Programme (SSNUP)

Scan or click on the QR code to hear our
podcast about how capacity building
shapes Oikocredit’s work on the ground
and why tailoring support to each partner
and context makes all the difference.

In numbers
Who received
capacity building?
€

1%

21

1,415,591

Countries where
capacity building
took place

Capacity building
spend

43%
56%

Agriculture organisations
Financial inclusion organisations
Renewable energy organisations

151

Organisations that received capacity building

19

Agri Evolve production supervisor Ireen Kabugho
with the drying coffee beans. Agri Evolve has many
women in management positions.

How we build capacity
Boosting Ugandan coffee farmers’ access to certified markets

20

Goals
To improve Ugandan smallholder coffee farmers’ crop
quality and access to digital supply chains, training,
certified markets and fairer prices.

Partner involved
Agri Evolve, a social enterprise working with Ugandan
smallholder farmers and an Oikocredit partner since
2023 (agrievolve.com).

Project overview
Oikocredit and its partner collaborated to enhance
smallholder farmers’ access to markets for certified
coffee. The project enabled more than 12,000
growers (42% of them women) in western Uganda’s
Rwenzori mountains to achieve Rainforest Alliance
and/or organic certification, enabling them to earn
post-harvest premiums. More than 9,000 farmers
(33% women) received training in sustainable
agricultural practices, and 6,000 (55% women)
participated in financial literacy training delivered
via animated local-language videos. Women’s
empowerment was promoted with gender training
for village savings and loan associations. Over 360
independent ‘agri-partners’ (trusted community
members with knowledge of coffee farming and
value chains) and 16 interns were also trained
and deployed, improving outreach and service
delivery to farmers. The project established 20
‘agri-hubs’ (accessible locations run by trustworthy
agri-partners where farmers can directly sell their
coffee and buy daily requirements); and it equipped
agri-partners with mobile phones to track inputs,
supply and training via a tailored mobile app.
Participating farmers received organic fertiliser to
boost productivity.

When it happened
September 2023 to February 2025.
Making it possible
The Smallholder SustaiNability Upscaling Programme
(SSNUP) provided financial support, with co-funding
from Agri Evolve.
About the client
Eresi Ithungu
is 62 years old
and has eight
children. Eresi
grows cassava and
tomatoes, mainly
for her family
and also to sell at
the local market.
Coffee provides
additional income
to help pay for her children’s school fees and for
home improvements. Eresi began selling her coffee to
Agri Evolve about two years ago and has benefitted
from Agri Evolve’s training in caring for her coffee
trees and boosting her crop.

Improving lending to smallholder women farmers in Indonesia
Goals:
To improve the livelihoods of smallholder farmer
communities in rural Indonesia by enhancing access
to affordable, flexible agricultural financing and nonfinancial services tailored to women farmers’ needs.

will include monitoring to assess uptake, alignment
with agricultural needs and repayment performance.
Field staff will be equipped with new tools and
support materials to promote the product and engage
with clients.

Project overview
The first phase of the project focused on market
research into the agricultural loan programme
offered by the partner, a members’ cooperative. This
provided insights into opportunities for enhancing
the loans’ effectiveness. Key findings highlighted
areas for improvement, such as better alignment
with farming cycles, increasing client awareness
and clarifying loan terms. It also revealed the need
for stronger risk mitigation, particularly around
crop failure – a common concern – and identified
a gap in understanding around crop insurance. It
underscored, too, the importance of further training
and support for field staff. Building on these insights,
phase two centres on the strategic redesign and
rollout of an enhanced loan product. This new version
will incorporate a de-risking mechanism, improved
marketing efforts, and strengthened internal support
to drive meaningful scale and impact. The rollout will
span 10 branches and reach 400 women farmers. It

Partner involved
Koperasi Mitra Dhuafa (KOMIDA), a savings and loan
cooperative for low-income Indonesian women and
an Oikocredit partner since 2016 (mitradhuafa.com).
When it happened
May 2023 to April 2024 (phase one); December 2024
to May 2026 (phase two).
Making it possible
The Smallholder SustaiNability Upscaling Programme
(SSNUP) provided financial support, with contributions
from Oikocredit, KOMIDA, and financial inclusion and
agricultural development partners.

Wiah, a client of KOMIDA, an Indonesian savings and loan
cooperative for low-income women that we support, talks with
branch manager Nanang Suhendar.

21

Equipping coffee producers in Peru to meet EU deforestation regulations
Goals
The project aimed to support the Pichanaki coffee
producers’ cooperative in Peru in preparing for
compliance with the European Union’s regulation
on deforestation-free products (originally due to
enter into force in December 2024 but postponed
to December 2025). The need was to georeference
member farms to verify that Pichanaki’s coffee
exports to the EU do not originate from areas
deforested after 2020.
Project overview
The Pichanaki cooperative comprises 370 coffeeproducing members, 106 of whom are women,
farming 1,902 hectares. The cooperative exports
35,000 quintals (3,500 tonnes) of green coffee
annually, mainly to the EU, certified organic
and/or fair trade. To meet new EU traceability
and environmental standards, the cooperative
georeferenced 196 farms (and expects to geolocate 170 additional farms by end-2025). This
involved training seven technicians in geographic
information systems and equipping them with tools
for accurate data collection, analysis and storage,

22

for later uploading to the Global Forest Watch
platform. As one of Oikocredit’s climate resilience
and rural livelihoods initiatives in Latin America,
the project’s combination of technical training and
data management support has made Pichanaki a
model for other cooperatives in similar contexts.
A further positive outcome was the development
of technicians’ skills in increasing cooperative
members’ adoption of good agricultural practices,
such as agroforestry combining coffee with forest and
fruit trees.
Partner involved
Pichanaki agrarian coffee cooperative, an Oikocredit
partner since 2011 (acpcperu.com).
When it happened
May 2024 to March 2025.
Making it possible
Project funding combining an Oikocredit International
Foundation grant and Pichanaki’s own financing.

The Client
Self-Perception
Survey
Our annual Client Self-Perception Survey
positions clients’ voices at the centre of
Oikocredit’s and our partners’ attention in
an amplified and systematic way. We work
with partners to develop their capability in
data collection, management and use, and to
optimise the impact of our partnerships on
clients’ lives. In a world where many claim
to be impact-driven, the client survey is a
key part of what makes our social impact
investing different.
In 2024, 37 financial services partners and one
renewable energy partner collaborated with us on
our fourth Client Self-Perception Survey to discover
and act on the significant changes their clients had
experienced over the past 12 months. The survey
reached more than 48,000 clients in 19 countries
across Africa, Asia, and Latin America and the
Caribbean in 10 languages and four dialects. Sixtynine per cent of respondents this year were women.

Survey reached

48,000
clients

10

Languages

in

19

countries

69%

of the
respondents
were women

23

Key findings from our client survey
Most respondents (81%) indicated that
Oikocredit’s partners had a positive influence on
their wellbeing over the past 12 months.

There were gender differences in savings
behaviour, with women more likely to save and
to use savings for household needs, and men
more likely to invest in their business.

More than half the respondents (53%) had
improved their ability to cope with health needs
and emergencies.

Extreme weather had disrupted (and generally
reduced) the income of 38% of respondents who
provided information on such impacts.

A sign of the continuing uncertainty affecting
people who live on low incomes was that many
respondents (32%) said they had become more
worried about the future.

Seventy-six per cent of 31,138 clients with a
business who responded to our question about
using the internet or a smartphone said they had
used one or the other to support their economic
activity over the last 12 months.

Sixty-one per cent of respondents said they
had savings, and most of these clients’ savings
had grown. Many had withdrawn and used
savings for needs such as household health and
education expenses, to repay a debt or loan, to
buy food or to invest in their business.

Home improvements (roof, walls or flooring)
were one of the main investments of clients,
with 45% of those who reported changes to their
home stating they had made such improvements
during the period.

Partner’s inﬂuence on wellbeing
over past 12 months

Most common reasons for withdrawing
savings by male and female respondents

(n=47,514)
Invested in an
existing business

4%

14

%

1%

81%

Positive inﬂuence
Indifferent
Negative inﬂuence
Don’t know

24

♂ 18%

♀ 12%

Expenses for
education

♂ 16%
♀ 16%

Health expenses

♂ 15%
♀ 14%

Buy food

♂ 13%
♀ 16%

Payment of
a debt/loan

♂ 11%
♀ 17%

Male (n=4,306)
Female (n=13,097)

How the client survey improves value for partners
A large part of Oikocredit’s support for partners
through the Client Self-Perception Survey involves
converting survey findings into action. We work with
partners to review the results and assist them in
preparing recommendations for their boards and
management. Partners then commit to actions based
on the data.
Fourteen partners in all our focus regions have used
our 2024 client survey findings to address extreme
weather challenges by participating in an Oikocreditsupported training series on environmental
performance management. This resulted in these
partners developing environmental action plans.
Survey insights have also led partners in Bolivia,
Indonesia, Kenya, Nigeria and the Philippines to
undertake sector-specific interventions, or staff and
client training, in response to extreme weather.
Informed by survey outcomes and insights, partners
in Brazil, Cambodia, Colombia, Guatemala, Indonesia,
Kenya, Nicaragua and Nigeria have developed new
performance indicators and targets and/or are
exploring potential new partnerships to assist clients
in improving their household water and sanitation
facilities. And partners in Bolivia, Brazil, El Salvador
and Zambia are developing financial education and
digital literacy training for clients and/or designing
fully digital loan application processes to reduce
client waiting times.
As part of this year’s client survey, we analysed one
partner’s survey data alongside internal system
data about its clients. This research explored how
the partner’s products contributed to clients’
resilience, considering the economic, social, cultural
and geographical contexts of their communities.
Respondents had an average household size of 4.2
people. Most were women (80%), unmarried (62%)

and lived in urban areas (57%). In terms of education,
61% had completed secondary school, while 26% had
completed only primary school.
Our analysis showed that not all products had the
same impact, with some contributing more effectively
to clients’ ability to cope with challenges. Overall,
we found that having savings and assets was crucial
to respondents’ ability to meet financial challenges.
These insights have helped the partner refine and
develop its products to better meet clients’ needs.
Renewable energy was a new sector our Client SelfPerception Survey explored in 2024 with one partner.
Key findings show that (1) increased household
electricity access helped children study after dusk;
(2) clients with prior solar access were more likely
to increase energy use than first-time users; and (3)
business owners with electricity access saw greater
income gains than non-business owners.
Looking ahead
Oikocredit is co-developing a digital learning platform
to equip Client Self-Perception Survey programme
partners with core insights from the survey. We
piloted the first module early in 2025, ahead of the
full release planned for 2026.
We will continue to develop innovative solutions
to increase the value the client survey delivers for
participating partners and their clients.

Scan or click on the QR code to access our
2024 Client Self-Perception Survey report.

25

Supporting the
Sustainable
Development
Goals
Oikocredit actively contributes
to the United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs) – in
particular to SDGs 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10,
13, 15 and 17.
We evidence our contribution to these goals
with over 50 indicators. These indicators
align closely with standard impact
investing indicators included in the Global
Impact Investing Network’s (GIIN’s) IRIS+
measurement system.

Goal
End poverty in all its
forms everywhere

Financial inclusion:
clients reached by
our partners

Financial inclusion:
% of partners tracking
clients’ Poverty
Probability Index scores

Financial inclusion:
clients of partners with
a savings account

Financial inclusion:
% of rural clients
reached by partners

49 million

11.97 million

15%

72%

Goal
End hunger, achieve food security
and improved nutrition and
promote sustainable agriculture

The indicators opposite provide a sample
of the data we collect to track Oikocredit’s
contribution to the SDGs.

Agriculture: farmers
reached by our partners

Agriculture: median
hectares per farmer

Agriculture: partners
offering additional
services – provision
of inputs

Agriculture: average
price premium paid
to farmers” (see
also page 36)

600,560

73%

2.9 hectares

16.6%

Goal
Ensure inclusive and equitable
quality education and promote
lifelong learning opportunities for all

Global learning and advocacy: 422 events
organised by 18 Oikocredit support associations

12,003 people reached

Additional access to education through
support for edufinance partners

291,952 children

26

Goal
Achieve gender equality and
empower all women and girls

% of partners with
gender equality as an
objective:
financial inclusion

Agriculture: % of
women employees

30.4%

60

%

% of financial
inclusion partners
offering women’s
empowerment training

Agriculture: partners
certified Fairtrade
(Flocert)

Renewable energy:
households starting
to use clean energy
for income-generating
activities

Renewable energy:
households gaining
access to clean energy

118,870

93

Goal
Take urgent action to combat
climate change and its impacts

88%

Goal
Ensure access to affordable,
reliable, sustainable and
modern energy for all

Cooperatives financed
(all sectors)

44

% of partners with
gender equality as
an objective:
agriculture

48%

CO2 emissions offset
through our renewable
energy portfolio

608,900 tonnes

% of agricultural partners
providing climate-smart
agriculture training

56%

% of financial inclusion partners providing
loans for the purchase of energy-efficient or
low-carbon products, such as solar panels

41%

7,930

Renewable energy:
households gaining
improved access
to clean cooking

1.10

Goal
Reduced inequality within
and among countries

Goal
Protect, restore and
promote sustainable use of
terrestrial ecosystems

Renewable energy:
CO2 emissions avoided

608,900 tonnes

million

Agriculture: partners
certified organic
Goal
Promote sustained, inclusive and
sustainable economic growth,
full and productive employment
and decent work for all
Financial inclusion:
micro, small and medium
enterprises (MSMEs)
financed by our partners

2.94 million

Financial inclusion:
% of partners with
employment creation
as an objective

64%

Financial inclusion: % of partners offering
additional non-financial services to clients

66%

49

Agriculture: % of partners
offering environmental
awareness training

85%

Agriculture: % of partners offering
climate-smart agriculture training

56%

Goal
Strengthen the means of
implementation and revitalise
the global partnership for
sustainable development
Organisations that received capacity building

151

27

Focus sector: financial inclusion
Why do we invest in financial inclusion?
Worldwide, 1.4 billion adults have inadequate
access to formal financial services.1 They have
no safe place for their savings, no cushion
against external shocks by way of insurance,
and cannot capitalise on business opportunities
by taking out fairly priced loans. Many of them
have low and unpredictable incomes and
lack the resources to cope with unexpected
household needs or to invest in a better future.
Oikocredit addresses this challenge by working with
partner organisations in lower-income countries
to create a world where finance is more inclusive,
sustainable and accessible for everyone. We provide
loans and equity investments to non-bank financial

institutions,2 banks and cooperatives that in turn
offer people on low incomes a wide range of financial
services, ranging from savings, credit, leasing
and insurance to remittance-related services and
financial education.
Oikocredit’s loans are denominated in USD, EUR or
local currency.
We also stimulate increased incomes and
employment generation by supporting micro, small
and medium enterprises (MSMEs) with affordable
financial products and services. In the economies
where Oikocredit is active, MSMEs are engines of
economic growth.

Contributing to:

Roberto Galland runs a Christmas tree business
and became a client of Mexican credit union
Unión de Crédito General (UCG) in 2017.
Oikocredit has supported UCG since 2006. Here,
Roberto meets with UCG senior executive Sonia
López on his tree plantation.

28

1. World Bank Global Findex Database, 2021, update October 2023.
2. Non-bank financial institutions such as microfinance
organisations provide financial services but do not have a full
banking licence and cannot accept deposits from the public.

Batumbu is the Indonesian subsidiary of Validus
Group, a digital financing platform for SMEs in
Southeast Asia that recently became an Oikocredit
partner. In the photo, Rana S. Budijarto of Batumbu
talks with Indraria Sri M. of client organisation Q Jobs,
an outsourcing enterprise.

Access to reliable financial services
Having access to reliable financial services positively
impacts people’s lives in many ways:

The importance of quality

• Increases resilience: Research indicates that

While there is ample evidence that access
to financial services positively affects the
wellbeing and lives of low-income people and
communities, it is not a silver bullet. Benefits
take time to accrue, and responsible practice
is key.

• Helps small businesses grow: With access to

Moreover, the quality of financial services
matters. Financial products need to be tailored
to clients’ needs and capabilities. Non-bank
financial institutions, banks and cooperatives
must act responsibly and protect clients’ rights.
They also need to think beyond providing
financial services; to deliver positive effects,
financial services often need to be combined
with other measures. Research shows that the
combination of credit with technical assistance
can be very effective in improving livelihoods.

households and small businesses with access to
insurance, savings and credit are better equipped
to weather income shocks such as unemployment
or the loss of a breadwinner than those without
such access.
credit, entrepreneurs can scale up their businesses,
increase revenues and acquire assets.

• Strengthens rural economies: In rural areas, access
to financial services is particularly constrained.
Access to simple financial services such as loans,
savings and payments can therefore have a
significant positive effect on rural economies.

• Supports health and sanitation: Access to credit

can substantially increase willingness to invest in
household sanitation, such as latrines. This in turn
can improve public health for an entire village.

• Improves farm yields: Loans specifically tailored

to farmers’ needs enable smallholders to increase
investments, which research shows leads to higher
yields and better returns.

29

Diana Jerónimo is Social Impact Director at Mexican
microfinance institution Avanza Sólido, an Oikocredit
partner. Operating mainly in Mexico’s rural south,
Avanza Sólido’s mission is to promote women’s
financial inclusion and economic empowerment.

How do we create impact in financial inclusion?
Within financial inclusion, Oikocredit
concentrates on three segments:

• Microfinance institutions (MFIs)

• Providing responsible financial services for

low-income people

• Contributing to financial security, resilience and

economic empowerment

• Financial institutions and banks supporting micro,
small and medium enterprises (MSMEs)

• Providing responsible financial services for MSMEs
• Contributing to job creation and retention and

improved financial health of MSMEs

• Non-traditional financial institutions

• Providing responsible finance using digital

technology to enable clients to access financial
services more easily (fintechs)
• Savings and credit cooperatives (SACCOs)
providing financial services to members

30

Oikocredit requires financial inclusion partners
to endorse and align their practices with client
protection standards, carry out an assessment
and, if needed, create an action plan to improve
their environmental, social and governance (ESG)
or risk management. Oikocredit also monitors the
implementation of these action plans.

Our impact in financial inclusion in numbers
Microfinance partners
offering additional
services
– % of partners

€

854.7 million

49 million

Financial inclusion financing

Clients reached by our
financial inclusion partners

88%

72%

Financial literacy training
70%
Business development
training

48%

48%

Women’s empowerment
training

Health education

women clients

rural clients

351,560

7.64 million

34%
Medical services
27%

Occupation of
microfinance clients

Number of people
employed by our partners

Number of jobs created
or sustained by MSMEs
financed by our partners

9%
7

%

9%

56%

19%

337

66%

Financial inclusion
partners

of financial inclusion
partners offering
additional non-financial
services to clients

2.94 million

45

Agriculture
Commerce
Production
Services
Other

MSMEs financed
by our partners

Financial cooperatives
financed

31

Impact story: microfinance
Koperasi Syariah Benteng Mikro Indonesia
About the partner
Koperasi Syariah Benteng Mikro Indonesia (Kopsyah
BMI: kopsyahbmi.co.id) is a savings, loans and
financing cooperative based in Tangerang, near
Jakarta. While the cooperative adheres to Syariah
(Sharia or Islamic law) financing principles, its scope
remains strongly rooted in microfinance. Kopsyah
BMI assists members with working capital for SMEs
and smallholder farms, with business training and
development, with finance for children’s education
and for home improvements, including water and
sanitation upgrades, and with household insurance,
university scholarships for member families,
investments and charitable giving.
Oikocredit partner since 2017
Type of organisation
Microfinance cooperative with national reach.
Type of clients
Micro-entrepreneurs, small-scale livestock farmers
and low-income households.
Number of clients
Kopsyah BMI has more than 247,000 members.
The impact
Rural and other Indonesians often face financial
exclusion due to their low incomes, limited financial

Triendah Daryanti, a client of our Indonesian partner
Kopsyah BMI, in her laundry shop.

32

literacy and lack of access to ethical, interest-free
financial services. By offering Sharia-compliant
financing, simplifying processes and promoting
financial education, Kopsyah BMI helps improve
its members’ financial wellbeing and inclusion. In
2024, the 60 Decibels Social Impact Awards ranked
Kopsyah BMI top in Indonesia and third in Asia for
positive microfinance impact (accessibility, business
and household impact, client protection, resilience
and agency).
Supporting this partner
A three-year Oikocredit loan of EUR 5.2 million and
technical assistance in the form of risk management
training and workshops.
About the client
Triendah Daryanti is 57 and married with children
and grandchildren. Triendah started her laundry
business in 2010 and ran it from home at first before
renting a shop. With no customers to begin with, she
took a loan from Kopsyah BMI to print brochures
and promote her business door to door. Triendah
now has plenty of customers and offers free laundry
pickup by motorcycle. She also sells snacks and
drinks online for home delivery and works part time
as a kindergarten teacher. “Once I finish repaying
my loan … I plan to apply for another to expand
my laundry business and open another shop,”
Triendah says.

Impact story: MSME finance
Vreedhi Financial Services, India
About the partner
Vreedhi (vreedhi.com) is an Indian financial services
provider offering small business loans to underserved
micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs).
Headquartered in Hyderabad, Telangana state,
Vreedhi’s roots lie in the Dr Reddy’s Foundation’s
educational, health, livelihoods and climate action
non-profit work with low-income households,
especially providing women micro-entrepreneurs with
microcredit. Vreedhi complements its digital lending
and rapid (24-hour) application-to-disbursement
process with a local physical presence and doorstep
business model.

The impact
Vreedhi has provided collateral-free credit since
2019 to more than 25,000 MSMEs with low turnover,
no collateral and limited credit history. By bridging
financial gaps and empowering underserved
entrepreneurs, it promotes inclusive growth in the
grassroots economy.

Oikocredit partner since 2020

About the client
Padma and Amarnath C. are a hard-working married
couple with student-age children. Rice traders for
14 years, in 2023 they also opened a small general
store with a loan from Vreedhi to buy stock. The
shop is in a busy area where a lot of construction is
occurring. Many construction workers buy from them
on credit during the week and settle their bills at the
weekend. Padma and Amarnath are very satisfied as
Vreedhi clients and use its insurance and business
development services. Padma welcomed Oikocredit
study tour participants in December 2023 with a
complimentary drink and the words: “I share my
happiness with you!”

Type of organisation
Non-banking financial services company established
in 2019 and registered with the Reserve Bank of India.
Type of clients
MSMEs in smaller urban centres, such as retailers,
pharmacies, traders, mechanics, tailors, small-scale
manufacturers, and women running home-based or
community businesses.
Number of clients
4,413 currently active clients (March 2025).

Supporting this partner
Oikocredit supports Vreedhi with loans through
Maanaveeya, its Indian subsidiary; Maanaveeya was
Vreedhi’s first lender, and the two organisations
remain closely connected.

33

Focus sector: agriculture
Why do we invest in agriculture?
Agriculture is the world’s largest employer
and accounts for up to 25% of gross domestic
product (GDP) in some developing countries.
Two-thirds of the world’s poorest people live
in rural areas, and for most of them farming
is the main source of food, employment and
income.1 Research shows that growth in the
agriculture sector is two to four times more
effective in raising incomes among the poorest
40% of people compared to growth in nonagricultural sectors.
Farming is the prime connection between people
and the planet. Developing the sector is key to
guaranteeing long-term food security, contributing
to climate change adaptation and mitigation, and
dramatically reducing poverty, particularly for
smallholder producers and landless agricultural
workers. Investing in sustainable agriculture can help
achieve multiple Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs).
By nurturing the land and adopting sustainable
agriculture, present and future generations of farmers
will be able to feed a growing population. When
properly nourished, children can focus on learning,

people can lead healthy and productive lives, and
societies can prosper.
A recent UN Food and Agriculture Organization
(FAO) study estimates that nearly 85% of all farms
globally are smaller than two hectares. They
operate only around 12% of all agricultural land yet
produce about 35% of the world’s food. Most of
the available arable land is in sub-Saharan Africa.
Smallholder agriculture, especially if well integrated
into a diversified rural economy and agrifood value
chains, can greatly contribute to inclusive growth and
employment generation.
Over 500 million smallholder farmers worldwide –
many of them women – play a critical role in world
food production,2 but most are vulnerable to the
effects of climate change, such as drought and floods.
Additionally, smallholder farmers often face volatile
pricing and unfair competition.
Despite the many benefits of investment in
agriculture, smallholder farmers often lack access
to finance. The demand for smallholder finance is
estimated at USD 170 billion.3

1. International Fund for Agricultural Development, 2020, To move the needle on ending extreme poverty, focus on rural areas.
2. UN Environment Programme, 2021, UN report calls for repurposing of USD 470 bn of agricultural support.
3. Center for Strategic & International Studies, 2022, Access to finance for smallholder farmers.

Contributing to:

34

Beneficio La Eva is an Oikocredit
agriculture partner in Costa Rica.
It works with local growers and
family farms to produce high-quality
coffee, which it trades and exports.
Smallholder Olman Aguilera Chávez,
in the photo opposite, has cultivated
his beautiful farm for over 40 years
and sells all his coffee to Beneficio La
Eva. Committed to ecological, social
and economic sustainability, Beneficio
La Eva plans to plant thousands more
trees to support coffee cultivation
and promote biodiversity.

How do we create
impact in agriculture?
To help address this challenge, Oikocredit increases
access to loans, equity investments and capacity
building to strengthen social and sustainable
organisations that work with smallholder farmers.
Our agriculture partners support farmers in
increasing productivity, crop diversity and
sustainability by providing technical assistance,
farm inputs, and access to markets offering better
terms and conditions – for example, markets for fair
trade and organic products. This leads to increased
income and stronger, more financially stable farming
businesses, enabling smallholder farmers and their
households and communities improve their lives.

Oikocredit supports smallholder farmers by providing
access to finance through farmer cooperatives and
other partner enterprises, promoting standards and
certification, and encouraging practices such as
crop diversification, organic production and climatesmart agriculture.
The biggest crops in our agriculture portfolio are
coffee, cocoa, nuts and grains.4
We report on the certifications our agriculture
partners obtain, as the premiums they can command
help farmers secure better incomes and benefit
their communities.
To enhance Oikocredit’s impact in agriculture, we
have recently adopted a new agriculture strategy for
2025-2029. This strategy aims to deepen support for
smallholder farmers through strategic partnerships
and the use of blended finance.

4. Based on the top four crops in investment amounts
and numbers of partners at 31 December 2024.

35

Our impact in agriculture in numbers

€

184.7 million

Agriculture financing

116

Agriculture
partners

Partners engaging in
environmental practices
– number of partners
Sustainable farming
73
Recycling/waste management
62

600,560

Farmers reached
by our partners

37,190

People employed by
agriculture partners

34%

Farmers reached
who are women

53%

permanently employed
by agriculture partners

Sustainable forestry
59

Agriculture partners
offering additional
services
– % of partners
Agricultural training
95%
Env. awareness training

99

%

of agriculture
partners offering
additional services
to farmers

85%

16.6%

Average price premium
paid to farmers

Sale/provision of inputs
73%
Loans
72%
Transport or delivery
67%

47

Agricultural cooperatives
financed

44

Partners certified
Fairtrade (FLOCERT)

36

34

Partners certified
Rainforest Alliance or UTZ

49

Partners certified
organic

Scan or click on the QR code to
watch a short video interview
with Magdalena López Herrera on
her farm.

Impact story: agriculture
Cooperativa Agraria Frontera San Ignacio (COOPAFSI)
About the partner
Cooperativa Agraria Frontera San Ignacio (COOPAFSI)
is a small-scale coffee farmers’ cooperative based
in San Ignacio province, Cajamarca region, northern
Peru. Its members cultivate a combined total of 1,230
hectares at higher altitudes, producing premiumquality coffee. COOPAFSI provides members with
collection, processing, marketing, microfinance,
technical training, health funds and community
development services. It sells coffee under fair
trade and organic certification, with most exported
to Europe and the USA, and applies environmental
protection practices including organic fertiliser use
and biodiversity conservation.
Oikocredit partner since 2019
Type of organisation
Coffee farmers’ cooperative, founded in 1968.
Type of clients
Smallholder coffee growers.
Number of clients
459 cooperative members, including
118 women (2024).
The impact
Rural incomes in Peru’s Cajamarca region are
generally low, and communities lack adequate access

to basic services. COOPAFSI enables local coffee
growers to access international fair trade and organic
markets, securing stable premium prices. It also
addresses exclusion by recognising the leadership
role of women through its women’s committee, and
by strengthening farmers’ technical capacity and
community resilience through training and collective
decision-making.
Supporting this partner
An Oikocredit credit line of USD 1.5 million.
About the client
Magdalena López Herrera (shown above) is married
with two school-age children. She and her husband
grow coffee on their smallholding in San Antonio de
la Balsa, San Ignacio province, with vegetables and
livestock for household consumption. Since joining
COOPAFSI in 2015, Magdalena has received better
prices for her speciality-quality coffee and benefitted
from the cooperative’s supply of organic fertiliser,
technical advice and support for beekeeping. “I am
very happy because this really changed my life,”
Magdalena says. She wants her children to continue
studying and to get good jobs in the future. Impacts
of climate change on coffee production remain a
challenge on the farm.

37

Focus sector: renewable energy
Why do we invest in renewable energy?
Roughly 685 million people worldwide live
without access to clean, affordable and reliable
electricity.1 More than 2 billion have no access
to clean cooking solutions, leading to 3.2 million
deaths a year from indoor air pollution.2,3
By financing renewable energy providers, Oikocredit
helps these partners become stronger, more
sustainable social businesses. As our partners
grow, they can reach more low-income clients with
products and services that widen access to clean
and affordable energy. Reduced costs and access to
renewable energy in turn empower partners’ clients
and contribute to improved living standards.
Access to affordable clean energy has additional
multifaceted benefits for households and
communities in developing economies:
Increased earning capability: Lack of energy access
curtails income-earning capabilities. Clean and
affordable electricity can improve employment and
household earnings.
Improved health: Traditional cookstoves put
household members, particularly women and
children, at greater risk of chronic disease. Access
to clean energy significantly reduces household air
pollution. Better health positively affects livelihoods,
including earning and learning opportunities.

Women’s empowerment: Energy poverty has a
strong gender dimension. Collecting firewood and
water from distant sources are time-consuming
activities performed disproportionally by women and
girls. Lack of access to clean energy thus strongly
affects their living conditions and opportunities,
taking time away from other activities including
girls’ schooling. Clean cookstoves and solar water
pumps reduce chores, giving women and girls greater
time sovereignty.
Food security: Irrigation is key to farm productivity.
Without access to renewable energy, many
smallholder farmers are forced to collect water
from distant sources or rely on costly and polluting
diesel-powered pumping. This leaves large tracts of
farmable land without proper irrigation. Solar water
pumps provide a cost-effective solution and allow
farmers to increase their crop yields.
Education: Over 186 million children attend primary
schools that have no electricity. This negatively
affects the time students spend learning and their
chances of completing primary education. Access
to affordable clean energy can increase school
attendance, enable longer operating hours and
enhance remote and home
learning including outside
Contributing to:
daylight hours.4

1. World Bank, International Energy Agency and others, 2024,
Tracking SDG7: The Energy Progress Report.
2. Ibid.
3. World Health Organization, 2024, Household air pollution.
4.	United Nations, 2022, Addressing Energy’s Interlinkages with other SDGs.

A ground-level solar installation at Central University,
Tema campus, Ghana, supplied by Oikocredit
renewable utility partner Ecoligo. The university
chose solar energy because it is more sustainable,
cheaper and more reliable than Ghanaian grid
electricity. Berlin-based Ecoligo specialises in
providing affordable installations to small and midsize
organisations in lower-income countries.

38

Zoumana Silue opens his café in Côte d’Ivoire 24
hours a day. He starts work at 12 midnight, and while
he is resting his employee Estelle Silue manages the
café. Electricity power cuts used to leave the café
in darkness. But today Zoumana has a solar kit from
Oikocredit renewable energy partner Baobab Plus,
and his café now has light both day and night. The
installation comprises a battery with charging options
and three lights, paid for in instalments.

How do we create impact
in renewable energy?

Our impact in
renewable energy
in numbers
5

We invest in projects that focus on social impact,
in particular:

• Off-grid solar

• Providing off-grid households with electricity and

with solar-powered appliances (such as lights,
radios and refrigerators) through solar home
systems
• Constructing and operating solar mini-grids for
rural communities

• On-grid infrastructure projects serving energypoor communities

118,870

Households gaining
access to clean energy

7,930

Households starting to use clean energy
for income-generating activities

• Using renewable energy technologies like solar,

wind, hydropower and biomass

• Clean cooking

• Offering a clean and efficient alternative to

traditional cooking methods – such as burning
wood on a three-stone fire – by switching to
cookstoves
• Reducing negative impacts on health and the
environment (CO2 emissions, deforestation,
household air pollution)
Focusing our work on renewable energy in this
way ensures we invest only where there are clear
benefits for communities, such as improved living
standards and positive health outcomes.

€

63.1 million

Renewable
energy financing

28

Renewable energy
partners

608,900 tonnes
CO2 emissions
avoided

5. For renewable energy, we calculate the
impact our funding has made based on the
proportion our financing represents of the
total financing of each of our partners.
39

Workers at the Ecozen factory in Pune, India.
An Oikocredit partner since 2021, Ecozen
manufactures and supplies farming communities
with solar water pumps and solar cold rooms for
perishable agricultural commodities.

Better access to lower-cost – and clean – energy in Africa
Reduced energy costs
Many households in sub-Saharan Africa’s rural areas
rely on polluting diesel generators for electricity
production. Their high operating costs mean a
sizeable share of household income is needed
to pay for energy. When oil prices soar, as has
happened in recent years, generator use becomes
unaffordable for many households, forcing them to
live without electricity.
Energy affordability is crucial. Energy prices are in
some cases so high that many Africans forgo essential
energy services on a day-to-day basis. Poverty is
the fundamental reason why so many households in
sub-Saharan Africa struggle to pay for modern energy
services, even when subsidised.
More than 40% of sub-Saharan Africans live below
the international poverty line. Yet, according to the
African Energy Outlook report, average residential
electricity rates and subsidised tariffs for the poorest
customers in sub-Saharan African countries such
as Burkina Faso, Nigeria and Uganda may exceed
OECD averages – even before considering differences
in purchasing power. Bringing energy costs down
is crucial to ensure a fair energy transition to
cleaner technologies for the most vulnerable and
disadvantaged populations.

40

To achieve universal access to affordable electricity
by 2030 in Africa, the International Energy Agency
estimates that 30% of new household connections
will have to come from solar mini-grids, and this share
increases to 65% in rural communities located more
than 20 km from grid infrastructure.
Mini-grids are independent, decentralised solar
electricity networks that produce power for local
users. Their power capacity typically ranges between
250 kW and 10 MW. Besides being low-carbon, they
benefit from economies of scale and are thus a costeffective solution where the population is too small or
remote for main grid extension, and where electricity
needs are larger than the power generated by solar
home systems, for example for small-scale industrial
machinery and agricultural equipment.

Impact story: renewable energy
Solar Panda, Kenya
About the partner
Solar Panda (solarpanda.com) designs and
manufactures clean, safe and affordable pay-as-yougo solar home electricity systems and distributes
them to low-income communities. Since 2018,
Solar Panda has provided more than 350,000 solar
domestic systems across Kenya from its 55 retail
branches. One of the fastest growing enterprises
in the sector, it employs more than 300 staff in
Kenya and has a network of over 1,000 independent
sales agents.

Solar Panda has assisted thousands of households
previously lacking reliable electricity to improve
their quality of life. This access enables extended
study hours for students, safer living conditions, and
increased connectivity and access to information.
The company’s pay-as-you-go model fosters
financial inclusion while creating local employment
opportunities through its network of sales agents and
technicians. Contributing to sustainable development,
energy equity and poverty reduction, Solar Panda has
recently expanded operations into Senegal.

Oikocredit partner since 2022

Supporting this partner
Oikocredit equity investments of USD 4 million in
2022 and USD 2 million in 2024.

Type of organisation
Developer, manufacturer and supplier of innovative
solar energy systems in Africa.
Type of clients
Homes and small businesses in Kenya.
Number of clients
More than 350,000 households, benefitting 1.7 million
Kenyans (2025).
The impact
With over 600 million people lacking access to
affordable electricity across sub-Saharan Africa, Solar
Panda’s products and services have significantly
impacted energy access and socioeconomic
development in off-grid communities. By providing
affordable solar-powered home systems – including
lights, mobile phone chargers, radios and TVs –

About the client
David Mushoka, his wife, Susan Kalondo, and their
two school-age children live on government land that
they could be asked to vacate at any time. Family
income comes from a small business, including a
shop. David and his household formerly relied on
costly kerosene but have now been Solar Panda
customers for about two years. They have solarpowered radio and TV, a solar torch and a solar
phone charger, which David lets neighbours use for
free. “This has made a significant difference in my
daily life,” David says. In the photograph, David and
Susan listen to the radio outside their shop.

41

Varthana, an Oikocredit partner since 2022, provides
financing for affordable private schools and student
fees in India. With Varthana’s support, schools
invest in infrastructure, teacher training and other
improvements that benefit children from low-income
families. In the photo, Varthana staff and Oikocredit
2023 study tour participants meet at the company’s
head office in Bengaluru.

Community-focused projects
Community resilience-building projects
are intrinsic to the four-year strategy our
cooperative began to implement in 2022.
Central to our approach is undertaking
initiatives in education, water and sanitation,
housing and community infrastructure with
current and new partners. We have achieved
good progress by closing 2024 with an
outstanding community-focused portfolio of
EUR 84.4 million.
Together with partners already working in these
areas that have insight into local communities’ most
pressing needs, we are driving the development of
solutions to help low-income communities become
more resilient.
Besides co-developing solutions, Oikocredit also
finances these projects and supports and provides
capacity building. We facilitate connections with
other mission-aligned organisations that help provide
additional solutions, such as grant funding, technical
assistance and infrastructure.

Key benefits

• For partners: Enabling partners to respond

faster and more effectively to the needs of the
communities they operate in.
• For Oikocredit: Ability to engage more closely
with mission-aligned partners (current and new),
growing our impact and ensuring long-term
investment opportunities.
• For clients: Access to basic services, with greater
opportunity to live the life they aspire to.

Our role with the community-focused
approach:

• We identify partners with community-oriented

goals. Together, we explore what the communities
they serve need most to increase their resilience.

• We drive the co-development of new initiatives that
are replicable and scalable, facilitating connections
between people and organisations to help solve
community problems.

• We finance solutions and provide and facilitate

capacity building and technical assistance through
all phases of initiatives’ lifecycles, from riskier seed
capital to maturity, and find other investors and
donors when needed.

42

Progress thus far
Education
We have partnered with international non-profit
organisation Opportunity International since 2021
to enhance access to affordable quality education
for children in low-income communities in Africa,
Latin America and the Caribbean, and Southeast
Asia. Through this collaboration, Oikocredit provides
funding to financial institutions, while Opportunity
International supports technical assistance for
financial institutions and schools.
As of 2024, we have served 22 financial institutions
by mobilising USD 63 million in loans, of which
21.5% was committed to education. Early estimates
indicate that over 600,000 children will benefit
from the investments in school access and
improved school facilities. We continue to grow our
education portfolio.
Housing
Housing is currently Oikocredit’s largest communityfocused project area in terms of outstanding portfolio
size. Latin America and the Caribbean have the major
share of the housing portfolio. In Latin America, we
actively invest in housing projects, provide financing,
build capacity and host webinars for inclusive finance
partners. The region faces a significant housing deficit
due to rapid urbanisation and the poor quality of

much of its existing housing. Our approach aims to
address this pressing issue.

Scan or click on the QR code to watch a
video about our housing partnership with
Hábitat para la Humanidad in El Salvador.

Water and sanitation
We are partnering with Aqua for All, based in the
Netherlands, to mobilise innovative finance for water
and sanitation (WASH). Through this collaboration,
Oikocredit provides financial institutions with loans
including a WASH component, while Aqua for All
contributes technical assistance, de-risking and
performance-based incentives.
Another strategic partnership, with US-based nonprofit Water.org, promotes WASH services in lowincome and drought- and climate-change-affected
communities in Brazil, Mexico and Peru. Working
with financial inclusion partners in each country, this
collaboration aims to catalyse credit flows and to
contribute to climate and environmental resilience.

Patricia Hernandez with her children at the
house she and her husband built in Cojutepeque,
El Salvador, with help from our partner Hábitat
para la Humanidad. Patricia says: “Hábitat
is a very good company … thanks to them, I
managed to fulfil my dream of having my own
new house for me and for my family. And that is
a blessing.”

43

We made new loans to two additional WASH partners
in 2024, bringing total funds mobilised for this sector
during the current strategic period to EUR 7.5 million.

Scan or click on the QR code to watch a
video about our WASH partnership with
Aqua for All and Ugandan financial services
provider Ebo Sacco.

Needs driving the development of our
community-focused portfolio
The overview below shows global needs and SDGs
linked to community-focused projects we are
developing with our partners.

Education
600 million school-age children
worldwide are not in school or
receive substandard education
Source: Unesco, 2022, 617 million children and adolescents
not getting the minimum in reading and math.

Water & sanitation
4.5 billion people lack adequate
access to safe water and/or
sanitation facilities
Source: WHO and Unicef, 2021, Progress on household
drinking water, sanitation and hygiene.

Community infrastructure
685 million people lack
access to electricity

Source: World Bank, International Energy Agency and others,
2024, Tracking SDG 7: The Energy Progress Report.

Housing
1.6 billion people live in
inadequate housing conditions

Source: United Nations, 2020, Homelessness could happen to anyone.

44

Community infrastructure
In our commitment to community-focused renewable
energy infrastructure, we are supporting the
solarisation of education and health facilities and
other social infrastructure in partnership with Differ
Community Power. Our partner installs and operates
high-quality and high-reliability distributed renewable
energy solutions for critical community services
such as healthcare, education and humanitarian
assistance. Differ Community Power’s systems and
services create lasting social and economic benefits
for underserved communities in lower-income
countries, contributing to several of the social and
environmental SDGs.

Impact story: edufinance loans in Kenya
Promoting inclusive and equitable education
Goals
To increase low-income households’ access to
affordable and good-quality non-state child education
as a contribution to Sustainable Development Goal 4.
Project overview
Oikocredit and Opportunity International’s edufinance
partnership broadens education access and helps
improve the quality of children’s schooling in lowerincome countries. Our collaboration combines capital
investment with capacity building. In-country investee
financial institutions offer school fee loans to parents
and finance for schools to upgrade facilities. One such
project partner, Kenyan digital microfinance provider
Fortune Credit, has benefitted by expanding its loan
portfolio for school fees and school infrastructure
and improving its operational capabilities. Fortune
Credit channels school fee loans for families directly
to the schools’ accounts to safeguard the funding.
The partnership between Oikocredit, Fortune Credit
and Opportunity International has made steady gains.
Fortune Credit has an outstanding edufinance loan
book of over EUR 200,000 and is looking to grow
this further.

Partners involved
Opportunity International (opportunity.org) and
Fortune Credit (fortunecredit.co.ke).
When it happened
Oikocredit and Opportunity International’s edufinance
partnership began in October 2021; Fortune Credit
joined the project in 2023.
Making it possible
Joint mobilisation of funds by Oikocredit and
Opportunity International, combined with
capacity building on market feasibility and
product development.

Scan or click on the QR code to watch a
video about Fortune Credit’s work in Kenya
with microfinance clients.

45

Global learning and advocacy
Oikocredit’s commitment to a more just and
sustainable world extends beyond financing
and capacity building. Working closely with our
support associations across Europe (page 48),
we offer global learning and advocacy activities
that aim to deepen understanding in our
investor countries about the socioeconomic and
environmental challenges our partners and their
clients and communities face.
Through interactive learning and by bringing together
our members, investors, supporters and partners, we
challenge perspectives and build a sense of shared
responsibility. We seek to change mindsets and
behaviour – ultimately, so that lower-income people in
the countries where we invest can live in dignity and
their communities can grow in resilience.

and ethical consumption, and advocating for positive
change with decision-makers.
In 2025, our focus topic Invest in Climate Action
raises awareness of how the climate crisis impacts
our partners’ clients’ communities and shows
how we can support meaningful change in our
investor countries.
Given today’s mounting challenges of climate change,
biodiversity loss, inequality and injustice, contributing
to positive change through global learning and
advocacy is more urgent than at any time in our
cooperative’s previous 50 years.

Participants in our global learning and advocacy
activities gain new insights into how sustainable
development can be achieved and how they can
contribute to it. This may include by making more
responsible investment choices, supporting fair trade

The Good Money Game
Goals
The Good Money Game improves participants’
understanding of how banks use our money and
explores ways to support responsible investing. It
highlights challenges Oikocredit’s partners’ clients
face in financing their micro enterprises.
Project overview
The game comprises two interactive modules:

• Financial awareness module: “What does my bank
do with my money?” Participants use transaction
cards and icons to visualise financial flows and the
sectors banks finance, critically assessing whether
their money supports equitable or exploitative
economic activity.
• Financial inclusion role play: Participants
experience through role play the financial
struggles of a fictitious but realistic Indian micro
entrepreneur seeking funds to grow her catering
business. The module introduces the concept of
microfinance in an engaging way and challenges
participants’ perspectives on the realities
that Oikocredit’s financial inclusion partners’
clients face.

46

Parties involved
The East German and West German Oikocredit
support associations initially developed the game,
joined by the North German and Bavarian support
associations in 2024, when they worked with a
games designer to enhance the game’s content
and accessibility.
When it happened
First developed in 2022, with improvements and
multilingual expansion in 2024.
Making it possible
The Oikocredit International Foundation provided
funding for game refinement, production and
translation. Support associations in Austria,
France, Germany, Spain and Switzerland use the
game at fairs and in schools, workshops and adult
education programmes.

The Good Money Game is available in
Catalan, French, German and Spanish for
use by external organisations. Scan or
click on the QR code to learn more about
the game.

Global learning through cooking –
a taste of cultural connection
Goals
This online cooking event aimed to foster awareness
of global food systems, agroecology and climate
justice while strengthening community connections.
By cooking recipes from India, participants
experienced the food culture of the country with the
highest amount of Oikocredit financing while learning
about sustainable agriculture and fair trade.
Project overview
In 2024, Oikocredit support associations in Austria
and Germany organised an online cooking event
based on a collaboratively developed cookbook.
The cookbook, created in 2023, includes recipes
from Oikocredit colleagues worldwide and features
insights into food production, agroecology and global
trade. Participants received recipes and ingredients
lists in advance and then cooked Indian meals
alongside a professional chef who guided them. The
interactive format encouraged reflection on foodrelated challenges, sustainable agriculture and global
economic relationships and built on experience from
Oikocredit’s 2023 study tour to India. The initiative
attracted almost 200 online participants, and
feedback was overwhelmingly positive.

Parties involved
Several Oikocredit support associations collaborated
on the cookbook and event. They hired an Indian chef
to instruct participants and rented a professional
kitchen for the demonstration.
When it happened
The cookbook was developed in 2023, and the online
cooking event took place in October 2024.
Making it possible
The Oikocredit International Foundation provided
financial support for the event logistics, including
hiring the chef and venue, and promotion.

47

Support associations and volunteers
Support associations:
strengthening our network across Europe
Oikocredit’s first support association followed
soon after our cooperative’s founding in 1975.
The idea behind Oikocredit Nederland, the first
support association, was to enable people to
express support for our mission, participate
in our pioneering grassroots movement and,
in time, buy Oikocredit shares as individuals.
More support associations were established
over the coming years and decades, to promote
our vision.
Today, there are 20 support associations, in Austria,
Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands,
Spain and Switzerland. Each has a governing board,
who are all volunteers, and most have an employed
manager and global learning and advocacy staff.
Most support association members are investors in
Oikocredit and keen to raise awareness about our
mission in their region. Volunteers are also part of the
support associations, championing Oikocredit’s vision
and developing activities.

Oikocredit support associations’ spring meeting,
The Hague, Netherlands, March 2025.

48

The support associations no longer sell Oikocredit
shares, which we replaced with participations in
2023-2025, but remain highly committed to our
cooperative’s mission.

Oikocredit Suisse Romande’s panel discussion on Investing
for Climate Justice, Lausanne, Switzerland, June 2025.

Oikocredit Suisse Romande’s
2025 conference
Goals: Oikocredit Suisse Romande, Oikocredit’s
support association in the French-speaking part of
Switzerland, held an evening panel discussion on
Investing for Climate Justice, directly linking to our
2025-2026 global learning and advocacy campaign.
The goal was to raise awareness and inspire action
around climate justice, especially by highlighting
the pivotal role of responsible investments and
providing concrete examples that demonstrate how
change is possible.
Project overview: The event featured high-level
panellists from the political, scientific and financial
spheres and discussed how finance can be a
lever for transformation. Mixing global learning
and advocacy on this critical issue, the discussion
brought together our French-speaking Swiss
community with many people who were new to
our work.
Parties involved: Oikocredit Suisse Romande
organised the event in collaboration with a local
association promoting the social solidarity economy,
and with the support of an ecological and ethical
pension fund.
When it happened: 12 June 2025.
Making it possible: Oikocredit Suisse Romande and
the co-organising association.

Scan or click on the QR code to discover
an Oikocredit support association near you.

Volunteering with Oikocredit and
its support associations …
• brings our mission closer to the public and

expands our local and regional impact

• promotes civic participation and change, fostering

awareness about responsible investing, fair trade,
ethical consumption and climate action (see
‘Global learning and advocacy’, pages 46-47, for
activities involving volunteers)
• connects us with like-minded communities,
associations, networks and platforms, amplifying
our impact
• enriches our work with each volunteer’s unique
knowledge, experience and talents
• amplifies our vision of an economy built
from the grassroots with commitment,
proximity and coherence

“Volunteering has allowed me to connect with people
who, like me, believe another economy is possible.
Being part of Oikocredit means sowing seeds for the
future.”
– Sergio Casanueva, volunteer with
Oikocredit Andalucía, Spain

Volunteering contributions in 2024
Impact of volunteering with Oikocredit
At Oikocredit, we know that civic engagement
drives the transition to a more people-centred and
sustainable economy. Volunteers play a key role
as ambassadors of our values, raising awareness,
sharing our mission and vision, and strengthening
the support associations’ work. Hundreds of
our volunteers engage their local communities
in dialogue and action for a more just and
sustainable world.

• Over 300 active volunteers across Europe.
• More than 4,000 hours dedicated to global

learning and advocacy, event organisation
and communication.
• Participation in 400-plus public events such as
fairs, talks, workshops, school activities and
online sessions.
• Design and dissemination of global awareness and
advocacy materials.
• Collaboration with local organisations,
strengthening networks.
49

Engaging youth through
international volunteering
Goals: To engage more young people and make
volunteering with the Oikocredit network more
visible, offering a cultural exchange as a pathway to
connection and learning with people committed to
social justice.
Project overview: In 2025, Julia Castellvi, a
Spanish student of international relations and
women’s sustainable development, took part in an
international volunteer project organised by several
Oikocredit support associations. Volunteering with
Oikocredit involved Julia Castellvi in an immersive
cultural and organisational experience and provided
her with first-hand insight into our work and
values. Following recruitment, selection – based
on age (19 to 29), language ability, motivation and
affinity – and face-to-face induction in Spain, we
brought our volunteer to Germany for training and
involvement in the support associations’ work.
Hosted mainly in support association members’
homes, Julia Castellvi’s guided activities included
participating in Berlin’s Spanish film and culture
festival (CinEScultura 2025) and at the Oikocredit
Bayern support association general assembly. She
created social media content around these events in
Spanish, German and English. The experience was
very successful for all involved, with potentially a
positive ripple effect in our volunteer’s academic and
social environment.
Parties involved: Oikocredit Catalunya, Oikocredit
Euskadi and Oikocredit Andalucía were the sending
support associations, and Oikocredit Bayern and
Oikocredit Niedersachsen-Bremen the hosts.
When it happened: 23 April to 4 May 2025.
Making it possible: Oikocredit Bayern funded
the project; all the support associations involved
contributed in other ways.

50

Partnering for impact
We seek to develop strong, long-term partnerships to achieve lasting social impact.
In addition to the partners we invest in, Oikocredit works with multiple stakeholders, including the organisations
below, to catalyse positive change for people and communities on low incomes.1

svenskakyrkan.se

africanguaranteefund.com

agrigrade.org

alongsidehope.org

aquaforall.org

avca.africa

bundesinitiative-impact-investing.de

cerise-sptf.org

cric-ethik.finance

dfc.gov

e-mfp.eu

economie.gouv.fr

fairclimatefund.nl

fairtrade-deutschland.de

fairtrade.at

centerforﬁnancialinclusion.org

finance-fair.org

forum-ng.org

gabv.org

thegiin.org

gogla.org

Make the Difference
We Prove It

habitat.sv

idh.org

mf-rating.com

nabimpactinvesting.nl

opportunity.org

sida.se

solidaridad.nl

ada-microﬁnance.org

1. Only a selection of our partners are represented above because of space constraints.
The information here was correct at 31 December 2024.
51

Oikocredit’s mission
Oikocredit challenges all to invest responsibly.
It provides financial services and supports
organisations to improve the quality of life of
people with low incomes and their communities in a
sustainable way.

Oikocredit International
+31 33 422 40 40
info@oikocredit.org
www.oikocredit.org
Visiting address
Berkenweg 7
3818 LA Amersfoort
The Netherlands
Postal address
PO Box 2136
3800 CC Amersfoort
The Netherlands

Follow us on:
This document was produced by Oikocredit,
Ecumenical Development Cooperative Society U.A.
(Oikocredit International) with the greatest of care
and to the best of its knowledge and belief at the
time of writing. Oikocredit International provides no
guarantee with regard to its content and completeness
and does not accept any liability for losses which
might arise from making use of this information.

www.oikocredit.org

