Robyn McGuckin
ǆĞĐƵƟǀĞŝƌĞĐƚŽƌ, P4G 
3
Foreword
I’m delighted to share P4G’s inaugural startup portfolio. What you have before you is a pipeline of invest-
able climate businesses rooted in community and designed for growth.
ǇϮϬϯϱ͕ĚĞǀĞůŽƉŝŶŐĐŽƵŶƚƌŝĞƐǁŝůůŶĞĞĚΨϭ͘ϯƚƌŝůůŝŽŶŝŶĮŶĂŶĐĞĂŶŶƵĂůůǇƚŽďƵŝůĚƌĞƐŝůŝĞŶĐĞĂŶĚƐŚŝŌƚŽǁĂƌĚ
ŶĞƚͲǌĞƌŽĞĐŽŶŽŵŝĞƐ͘ůŝŵĂƚĞƐƚĂƌƚƵƉƐĂƌĞĂŶƵŶĚĞƌƵƟůŝǌĞĚŽƉƉŽƌƚƵŶŝƚǇƚŚĂƚĐĂŶďƌŝŶŐŝŶĐůŝŵĂƚĞĮŶĂŶĐĞ
and power economic progress.
Since our launch in 2018, we have invested over $42 million in 119 climate startups that have
subsequently ŵŽďŝůŝǌĞĚŵŽƌĞƚŚĂŶΨϱϮ6 ŵŝůůŝŽŶŝŶŝŶǀĞƐƚŵĞŶƚĂŶĚĐƌĞĂƚĞĚŵŽƌĞƚŚĂŶϭϰ͕ϬϬϬũŽďƐ͘ƌŝƟĐĂů
ƚŽƚŚŝƐƐƵĐĐĞƐƐ ŝƐƚŚĞŶĞƚǁŽƌŬŽĨƐƵƉƉŽƌƚĐƌĞĂƚĞĚďǇŽƵƌŶŝŶĞŵĞŵďĞƌĐŽƵŶƚƌǇEĂƟŽŶĂůWůĂƞŽƌŵƐ͘
ůůĂƌŽƵŶĚƵƐĐůŝŵĂƚĞƐƚĂƌƚƵƉƐĂƌĞŝŵƉůĞŵĞŶƟŶŐďƌĞĂŬƚŚƌŽƵŐŚƚĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐŝĞƐ͕ƐŚĂƉŝŶŐŽƵƌĨƵƚƵƌĞ͕ĂŶĚƚŚĞ
ĨƵƚƵƌĞŽĨƚŚĞĐŽŵŵƵŶŝƟĞƐƚŚĞǇƐĞƌǀĞ͘dŚŝƐƉŽƌƚĨŽůŝŽƚĂŬĞƐǇŽƵŝŶƚŽƚŚĞďƵƐŝŶĞƐƐŵŽĚĞůƐ͕ĂĐŚŝĞǀĞŵĞŶƚƐ
ĂŶĚ ŝŵƉĂĐƚƉƌŽũĞĐƟŽŶƐŽĨWϰ'ͲƐƵƉƉŽƌƚĞĚƐƚĂƌƚƵƉƐĂĚǀĂŶĐŝŶŐƚŚĞƚƌĂŶƐĨŽƌŵĂƟŽŶŽĨŽƵƌĨŽŽĚ͕ůĂŶĚĂŶĚ
energy systems.
In the next two years, these featured startups plan to raise $181 million in capital, create more than 9,700
ůŽĐĂůũŽďƐ͕ĂŶĚƌĞĚƵĐĞŽƌĂǀŽŝĚŵŽƌĞƚŚĂŶϭ͘ϱŵŝůůŝŽŶŵĞƚƌŝĐƚŽŶƐŝŶĐĂƌďŽŶĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐ͘dŚĞǇǁŝůůŚĂǀĞ
ŝŶĐƌĞĂƐĞĚŝŶĐŽŵĞƐ͕ŝŵƉƌŽǀĞĚǁĂƚĞƌƌĞƐŝůŝĞŶĐĞ͕ĂŶĚĐŽŶƚƌŝďƵƚĞĚƚŽĐůĞĂŶĞƌĂŝƌŝŶƚŚĞŝƌĐŽŵŵƵŶŝƟĞƐĂŶĚ
ĐŝƟĞƐ͘DĂŶǇŽĨƚŚĞŵǁŝůůŚĂǀĞĞǆƉĂŶĚĞĚƚŽĚŝīĞƌĞŶƚĐŽƵŶƚƌŝĞƐĂŶĚƌĞŐŝŽŶƐĂŶĚĚŝǀĞƌƐŝĮĞĚƚŚĞŝƌƉƌŽĚƵĐƚ
ƉŽƌƞŽůŝŽƐ͘
dŚĞƐĞůŽĐĂůůǇͲůĞĚĐůŝŵĂƚĞƐƚĂƌƚƵƉƐĨƌŽŵĨƌŝĐĂ͕ƐŝĂĂŶĚ>ĂƟŶŵĞƌŝĐĂŚĂǀĞŐƌŽǁŶĨƌŽŵĂƐƉĂƌŬŽĨĂŶŝĚĞĂ
into replicable and scalable businesses.
dŚĞũŽƵƌŶĞǇƚŽŝŶǀĞƐƚŵĞŶƚƌĞĂĚŝŶĞƐƐŝƐŶŽƚĂƐŵŽŽƚŚŽŶĞ͘/ƚ͛ƐĮůůĞĚǁŝƚŚƚǁŝƐƚƐĂŶĚƚƵƌŶƐĂƐĞǀŝĚĞŶĐĞĚďǇ
ƚŚĞĐĂƐĞƐƚƵĚǇŽĨĨƌŝĐĂŶĂŵďŽŽ͕ĂĚĞĞƉƚĞĐŚƚŚŝŽƉŝĂŶͲƵƚĐŚƐƚĂƌƚƵƉƉŝŽŶĞĞƌŝŶŐĮďĞƌͲďĂƐĞĚĐŽŶƐƚƌƵĐ-
ƟŽŶŵĂƚĞƌŝĂůƐ͘ůƐŽŝŶĐůƵĚĞĚŚĞƌĞ͕ĂůŽŽŬĂƚŚŽǁWϰ'͛ƐĞůĞĐƚƌŝĐͲŵŽďŝůŝƚǇƐƚĂƌƚƵƉƐĐŽůůĂďŽƌĂƚĞĚǁŝƚŚŽƵƌ
EĂƟŽŶĂůWůĂƞŽƌŵŝŶ<ĞŶǇĂƚŽŝŶŇƵĞŶĐĞƉŽůŝĐǇĂŶĚĂĐĐĞůĞƌĂƚĞƚŚĞĞůĞĐƚƌŝĐǀĞŚŝĐůĞƌĞǀŽůƵƟŽŶŝŶƚŚĞĐŽƵŶƚƌǇ͘
zŽƵ͛ůůĮŶĚƚŚĞŝƌƐƚŽƌŝĞƐĂŶĚŵŽƌĞŚĞƌĞ͘
I encourage you to be inspired by them, collaborate with them and grow them.
P4G: A Platform Strengthening Climate 
Entrepreneurship and Accelerating 
Country Climate Transitions
FOOD
 WATER
 ENERGY
About P4G
P4G helps early-stage climate startups 
in emerging markets and developing 
economies (EMDEs) become investment 
ready and partners them with national level 
public-private platforms to help navigate 
the marketplace. Through this approach, 
P4G strengthens market systems for climate 
entrepreneurs and accelerates just and 
resilient country economic transitions. 
P4G’s members are committed to advancing 
breakthrough solutions to achieve the 
Sustainable Development Goals and Paris 
Agreement commitments and are focused 
on poverty reduction and gender equity 
goals in climate-smart agriculture, clean 
energy and water resilience sectors. 
Hosted by World Resources Institute and funded by Denmark, the Netherlands and the Republic of Korea, P4G accelerates 
partnerships in Colombia, Ethiopia, Indonesia, Kenya, South Africa and Vietnam.
P4G Impact
CO2
MORE THAN 
$526 MILLION 
in total sectoral 
investments realized by 
P4G startups
11.6 MILLION 
METRIC TONS 
CO2e emissions 
avoided or mitigated
OVER 3 MILLION 
individuals positively 
affected and over 
14,000 jobs created
across member 
countries
87% OF PARTNERSHIPS 
complying with Gender 
2X criteria
4
OVER $42
MILLION
directly mobilized to
119 climate startup
partnerships
The P4G Approach
Partnering to enable investment readiness: P4G’s climate startups are EMDE-domiciled micro-small-medium 
enterprises (MSMEs) who are nearing commercial readiness and conducting their market proofs. They must be 
partnered with at least one nonproﬁt and can include additional technical specialists to help with Environmental-
Social-Governance proofs, customer understanding and outreach, and analyzing legal and regulatory challenges 
or other barriers. Together, they apply for P4G grant funding, technical assistance and network support to help the 
business become investment ready. The P4G team provides technical assistance that includes due diligence and gap 
analysis of the business model, stakeholder events, business matchmaking sessions and communications. 
Enabling market systems through country led improvements: P4G’s multistakeholder National Platforms work 
alongside our startup partnerships to better understand the marketplace based on real-world insights, and 
provide connections with relevant authorities who can support the enabling policy or regulatory improvement. 
Established in all P4G country partners, National Platforms comprise public sector leaders and the leading trade 
and industrial associations. 
Mobilizing knowledge to accelerate just transitions:  Analysis and insights into our climate startup market 
proofs provide essential learnings to inform both domestic and global public policy makers who are seeking 
to incentivize investment in that sector across their economy. Through communications, knowledge products, 
publications, in-country events and biennial P4G Summits, we reach key stakeholders in the public and private 
sector who can help accelerate our partnerships. We share our learning so others can replicate the success of our early-
stage businesses. 
Examples of P4G Partnerships
African Bamboo 
A deep tech Ethiopian-Dutch startup 
pioneering ﬁber-based construction 
materials.
WasteX 
A climate-tech startup offering an 
end-to-end integrated biochar solution 
to agricultural producers and farms in 
Indonesia and other Asian countries. 
Residua Biocircular 
A Colombian startup using Black 
Soldier Fly Larvae to convert organic 
waste into high-protein animal feed 
and biofertilizer. 
Alternō
A Vietnamese startup using sand-based 
thermal battery technology to store 
thermal energy at 300–600°C for 
agricultural and industrial applications.
BasiGo 
An e-mobility startup focused on 
transforming Kenya’s public transport 
system through increased e-bus use 
and production.  
5
The P4G Summit
The P4G Summit is a global
moment to showcase P4G startup 
partnerships and National Platforms,
facilitate a learning exchange on 
solutions for in-country transitions,
and engage high-level stakeholders 
who can use P4G’s approach
to enable green growth. The
2018 Copenhagen Summit and
2021 Seoul Summit united world 
leaders and heads of international  
organizations to progress bold 
climate action to meet global 
commitments. The 2023 P4G
Bogota Summit accelerated the 
deployment of climate ﬁnance in 
EMDE countries to advance a just 
transition to a net zero future. The 
2025 Vietnam Summit shared  
insights and advanced strategies  to
support climate entrepreneurship.
Contact us
P4Gpartnerships.org
@P4Gpartnerships
  
   
 
 
   
 
  
   
 
Country NaƟonal Plaƞorm Members 
Denmark Ministry of Foreign Aﬀairs  
Netherlands Ministry of Foreign Aﬀairs Netherlands Enterprise Agency (RVO) 
Republic of Korea Ministry of Foreign Aﬀairs Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry 
Colombia NaƟonal Planning 
Department 
NaƟonal Business AssociaƟon 
(ANDI) iNNpulsa 
Ethiopia Ministry of Planning and 
Development Chamber of Commerce and Sectoral AssociaƟons 
Indonesia Ministry of NaƟonal 
Development Planning 
The Indonesia Business Council 
for Sustainable Development IBEKA 
Kenya NaƟonal Treasury and 
Planning 
Ministry of Environment, 
Climate Change and Forestry 
Kenya Private Sector 
Alliance 
South Africa 
PresidenƟal 
Climate 
Commission 
Department of 
Environment, 
Forestry and 
Fisheries 
NaƟonal Business 
IniƟaƟve 
Just Energy TransiƟon 
Project Management 
Unit 
Vietnam Ministry of Finance Vietnam Chamber of Commerce and Industry 
State of Green
  
   
 
  
  
 
6
P4G National Platforms: Strengthening the Marketplace for Climate
Innovation and Entrepreneurship
NaƟonal Plaƞorms (NPs) are a disƟnguishing factor of P4G. They help climate startups navigate marketplace
barriers that constrain their investment readiness and strengthen the enabling environment to make it more
conducive for climate entrepreneurs. NPs work with climate startup partnerships across a full range of issues
such as policy, regulatory, trade, permiƫng, planning, incenƟves, carbon credits and value chains.
NPs, established in each P4G member country, comprise a core government ministry and the leading naƟonal
industry associaƟon.Key funcƟons include:
x IdenƟfying and SupporƟng Partnerships: NPs help idenƟfy high-impact partnerships that align with
naƟonal development and climate goals and P4G’s priority areas – climate smart agriculture, food
loss and waste, water resilience, zero emissions mobility and renewable energy.
x Improving the Enabling Policy and Regulatory Framework: NPs receive real-world insights from P4G
startups, which helps them facilitate informed policies, incenƟves and regulatory intervenƟons to
improve the overall enabling market environment in those priority sectors for economic growth.
x Building Capacity and Sharing Knowledge: NPs provide technical support, convene relevant
stakeholders and share best pracƟces through their vast networks to strengthen the climate
entrepreneur ecosystem in their countries.
Sub-Sector Focus
Climate Smart
Agriculture
Established                           Location
2018                                 Colombia
Sector                        Employees
Climate smart      40
agriculture    
Capital Raised 
US $4.2 million
Leadership Team 
Juan Pablo Muriel: CEO & Founder
International experience as abusiness 
consultant in Hong Kong and Berlin. 
He has been working in the 
agroindustry since 2011.
Diego Solano: Agricultural Director
19+ years of experience in 
agroforestry management, in which 
he has produced over 25 million trees 
and planted 5 million.
Website 
www.kardianuts.com
kardianuts
Contact 
Juan Pablo Muriel: CEO and Founder 
jpmuriel@kardianuts.com
KardiaNuts
www. P4GPartnerships.org
About
KardiaNuts is pioneering a sustainable cashew value chain using regenerative
practices in a region of Colombia once considered barren.
The Challenge
Agricultural value chains are the first step for socioeconomic development.
Without them, there is no income generation, food security, nutrition or
economic growth. Small farmers and large corporations in the Vichada region
of Colombia have struggled to grow and access markets competitively.
KardiaNuts is driving social, environmental and economic prosperity by
establishing a value chain in an area traditionally believed to be barren.
The Solution
KardiaNuts is implementing a solution that involves the production and
processing of cashews in Puerto Carreño, Vichada using agroforestry
solutions that improves soil health and farmer incomes. The startup supports
local farmers by providing them with access to processing facilities, technical
assistance, financing and fair market opportunities.
Traction
Market size: The South American cashew nut industry, led by Brazil, is steadily
growing, with the market projected to reach approximately US $750 million
by 2029 due to rising global demand for healthy, organic and sustainable
products. Colombia is emerging as a niche competitor by emphasizing organic
and sustainable practices. KardiaNuts serviceable obtainable market amounts
to about US $12 million by 2030.
Revenue: Since its inception, the company has generated approximately US
$750,000 in revenue to date. However, due to the nature of the business—
focused on late-yielding crops—revenues in the initial years are typically
lower, while capital requirements remain high.
Milestones: KardiaNuts has achieved the following milestones:
x KardiaNuts is the first facility in the region with national food safety and
organic certifications for the EU, USA and Switzerland.
x The startup has planted 1,200 hectares of cashew and constructed a 450
ton processing facility in Vichada.
Investment Opportunity
KardiaNuts is seeking US $1 million in equity to cover operational expenses
related to its expansion projects in Vichada, as well to implement
Measurement, Reporting and Verification processes and carbon certifications.
It will also use to the investment to maintain its competitive advantage,
innovative product offerings and optimize its pricing strategy.
8
Established                       Location
2020                              Colombia
Sector                     Employees
Climate smart                4 full time 
agriculture               4 part time 
Capital Raised 
US $375,000 in grant funding
Leadership Team 
Mateo Ospina: CEO & Co-founder
13+ years of experience in 
international market development, 
inclusive business model 
construction, and commercial and 
marketing roles in the CPG 
(Consumer Packaged Goods) 
industry. He holds a bachelor’s 
degree in business administration.
Manuela Jaramillo: COO & Co-
founder
14+ years of experience in project 
formulation across various national 
government entities and private 
companies. Professional in 
government and international 
relations with a Master's degree in 
entrepreneurship and innovation. 
Website 
www.ancestralfoods.co
Ancestral Organics
Contact 
Mateo Ospina: CEO
mateo@ancestralfoods.co
Ancestral Organics
www. P4GPartnerships.org
About
Ancestral Organics is a Colombian startup dedicated to the development of
organic and healthy superfoods produced through regenerative agriculture in
Quindío, and other departments of Colombia.
The Challenge
Agriculture is responsible for approximately 30% of global greenhouse gas
emissions. The sector also contributes to soil degradation that reduces
productivity and biodiversity. The limited adoption of regenerative practices and
lack of farmer knowledge further exacerbate these issues in Colombia. Existing
market solutions often fail to provide comprehensive approaches that integrate
sustainable farming, address food loss and empower farmers. Additionally,
these solutions come with high costs hindering adoption among small-scale
farmers.
The Solution
Ancestral Organics offers high-nutrition plant-based foods in Colombia through
local markets, supermarkets and online platforms. In the U.S., U.K. and Aruba,
distribution is via wholesalers and online channels like Amazon and Faire. The
startup’s holistic approach integrates regenerative practices, direct market
access, farmer empowerment and sustainability to drive economic and social
impact.
Traction
Market size: The total addressable market for organic, high-nutritional products
is estimated at US $150 billion, with a serviceable available market of US $500
million and a serviceable obtainable market of US $20 million.
Revenue: The company has successfully become operational in the U.S. Since its
foundation, it has generated US $430,500 in revenues (2021: $18K, 2022:
$86.5K, 2023: $120K, 2024: $206K).
Milestones: Ancestral Organics has achieved the following milestones: 
x Obtained organic certifications and is currently implementing monitoring,
reporting and verification processes to measure its climate and social impact.
x Establishing operations in the U.S. enhancing control, profitability and cash
flow management, providing stability and a clear growth path.
x Begun operations in the UK, and meets the legal certification requirements for
Europe, Dubai and Mexico.
Investment Opportunity
Ancestral Organics is seeking US $500,000 to scale operations in the U.S.,
Colombia and new markets. The funds will be used to expand stock capacity,
optimize cash flow, cover entry costs for major retailers, and support working
capital for its sales force. The preferred financing vehicle is revenue-based
financing.
9
Established             Location
2021                    Colombia
  
EmployeesSector
5Climate smart
agriculture               
Capital Raised 
US $68,000
Leadership Team 
Nicolas Montoya: Co-Founder &
CEO
Biologist with 8+ years of 
experience in soil health and 
innovation
Andre Echavarria: Co-Founder & 
CCO
Commercial leader with 7+ years of 
experience in startups 
and multinational companies
Daniel Moreno: Co-Founder & 
COO
Mechanical engineer with 
experience in mechatronics and 
robotics design, now applying his 
expertise to agriculture by 
integrating microbiology and 
advanced technology
Website 
www.sabio.com.co 
Sabio
Contact 
Nicolas Montoya Rojas
nicolas.montoya@sabio.com.co
www.P4GPartnerships.org
10
SaBio
About
SaBio is a Colombian biotech platform transforming agriculture by integrating 
biotechnology and data-driven solutions to restore soil health and strengthen 
agroecosystem resilience. The startup  empowers  farmers to increase 
productivity, reduce costs and agrochemical use, and make smarter decisions.
The  goal is to drive innovation toward a more efficient, profitable and 
regenerative agricultural sector.
The Challenge
Soil degradation and agrochemical overuse threaten the future of farming. In 
Colombia, 58% of soils are unsuitable due to erosion, desertification, and 
compaction—mirroring a global crisis affecting over 40% of soils worldwide.
Poor soil health leads to biodiversity  loss, greenhouse gas emissions, water 
contamination, and declining productivity, directly impacting food security,
human health and agribusiness profitability.
The  Solution
SaBio uses microbiome science, customized bio inputs, and AI-powered 
analytics to improve soil health and crop  yields. The startup  works  directly with 
producers and partners  with corporate buyers to support the transition to 
regenerative supply chains. SaBio’s model  includes a one-time soil diagnostic 
with tailored recommendations, followed by a subscription service offering 
training, field support and actionable insights. This empowers farmers to boost 
yields, cut input costs  and restore soil  biology, while helping companies build 
traceable, climate-resilient sourcing systems.
Traction
Market size: SaBio  operates  in the US $271  billion  global agrochemical market,
offering a scalable, sustainable alternative as demand for nature-based 
solutions rises. The agrochemical market  in Latin America is valued at US $12 
billion, and in Colombia it exceeds $  US 1.3  million. SaBio targets US $2  million 
in short-term revenue, US $13  million  in  the mid-term, with a clear roadmap to 
reach  US  $130  million  across the region.
Revenue:  Since launch, SaBio has generated US $237,000 in revenue with
130%–270% year-on-year  growth and positive EBITDA. Clients have cut 
agrochemical use by 50–70% and increased  yields by up to 27%. In 2025, it  aims 
to build two centralized bio-factories,  secure national certifications, and reach 
US $287,000  in revenue.
Investment Opportunity
SaBio is raising a US $2  million round at a $12  million  post-money valuation to 
scale from 2X to 3X annual growth. This capital will fund high-impact projects 
with large producers, expand into  new bioregions, and tie revenue to 
measurable outcomes. SaBio  will strengthen its  commercial, tech, and admin 
teams, and fast-track proprietary tech development—especially AI-  and IoT-
powered microbial monitoring. These advancements will accelerate market 
entry and unlock growth across Latin America and beyond. Sabio is seeking 
mission-aligned investors who bring capital,  global reach and deep expertise.
Established             Location
Colombia2021
  
EmployeesSector
7Climate smart
agriculture               
Capital Raised 
US $440,000
Urban-farmers-pro
Contact
Daniel Ramirez
daniel@urbanfarmerspro.com
About
Urban Farmers Pro is revolutionizing urban agriculture in with smart, 
sustainable solutions. By integrating technology and eco-friendly practices, it
empowers communities to grow fresh, nutritious food efficiently in urban 
spaces, reducing dependency on traditional supply chains.
The Challenge 
Urban areas face limited space, resource inefficiency and food insecurity. 
Conventional farming struggles to meet growing urban demand, while 
environmental challenges like water scarcity and soil degradation threaten 
sustainability.
The Solution 
Urban Farmers Pro addresses limited arable land and food security with fully 
automated vertical farms in repurposed shipping containers. Using proprietary 
algorithms and nutrient formulas, it ensures high-efficiency, pesticide-free 
production. The startup has consistently improved its technology, launching 
VIOS ONE with automated climate control in 2022, followed by a 45% more 
efficient VIOS FARM in 2023. In 2024, Urban Farmers Pro introduced Latin 
America's first large-scale modular vertical farm, yielding over 10 tons of 
produce annually in just 12 square meters. The business model includes direct 
B2B sales and an operational leasing model.
Traction 
Market size: The global fresh vegetables market is valued at US $650 billion, 
with expected growth to US $895 billion by 2032. Urban Farmers Pro targets a 
US $160 billion market across key regions, with an initial focus on Colombia’s US 
$7 billion market. By Year 5, it aims to capture US $750 million, aligning with a
projected revenue of US $6.3 million through production expansion and 
strategic partnerships.
Revenue: Urban Farmers Pro has gained strong traction in the B2B sector, 
supplying top-tier restaurants, hotels, and supermarkets like Colsubsidio and 
Jumbo Cencosud. Since launching VIOS FARM in February 2023, it has achieved 
a 40.38% compound monthly growth rate, reaching full product sellout by 
November 2024. The startup’s annual recurring revenue now stands at US 
$25,000, with year-to-date revenue of US $35,658. As pioneers in Latin 
America’s indoor farming sector, Urban Farmers Pro combines production and 
sales of leafy greens with an innovative “agriculture as a service” model, 
offering on-site vertical farms with full operational management.
Investment Opportunity 
Urban Farmers Pro is launching a US $1.5 million seed round through a SAFE, 
offering 10% equity. This investment will support scaling production capacity, 
enhancing proprietary technology, and driving nationwide expansion across 
Colombia. With strong market traction and a unique agriculture-as-a-service 
model, the company is positioned for rapid growth in the sustainable food 
sector.
Urban Farmers Pro
www.P4GPartnerships.org
11
Leadership Team
Klaus Hergett: Co-founder and 
CEO
20 years of experience in design,
product development,
manufacturing, and training,
specializing in low-cost water and 
agricultural technologies
Daniel Ramirez: Co-founder and 
COO
10+ years of experience in 
communications  and business 
negotiations, driving strategic 
growth and partnerships
Jorge Camacho: Managing Partner
8+ years of experience  in sales,
marketing, and business 
development in  insurance,
agriculture, and Software-as-a-
Service
Website
www.urbanfarmerspro.com
About 
A deep tech Ethiopian-Dutch startup pioneering fiber based construction 
materials
The Challenge 
The buildings and construction sector contributes to 37% of global emissions. 
Traditional materials like concrete and steel are a major source of carbon 
emissions. Wood in construction also contributes to an increase in emissions. 
The Solution 
African Bamboo’s core business is its technology services to others in the 
building industry. The startup’s revenue and growth will come from multiple 
business lines: 
x Licensing the technology to other companies to develop their own bamboo-
based product lines
x Scaling the production and sale of the bamboo materials through its factory in 
Ethiopia
x Generating revenue through the sale of VCUs from AB’s Verra-listed ARR 
project in Ethiopia
African Bamboo’s solution is rooted into community-led forestry operations. 
The startup provides technical and business training to smallholder farmers in 
Ethiopia across the bamboo value chain. This allows farmers to increase their 
incomes while implementing sustainable forestry practices to restore degraded 
land. AB plans to expand forestry and manufacturing operations across multiple 
African countries.
Traction 
Market size: The expected market growth for bamboo is projected at 4.5% until 
2030. The African continent houses more than 12.3% of global bamboo 
resources. Ethiopia alone is home to almost 70% of bamboo resources in Africa
and could generate up to $5 billion in annual revenue. 
Revenue: In 2024, African Bamboo’s revenues are $1.6 million, and the 
company expects a 300% growth in annual revenue to $8.1 Million by 2026. 
Milestones: African Bamboo has achieved the following milestones: 
x Owns the patents to its processes and has a model that is fit to scale across 
sub-Saharan Africa.
x Refined its product to meet international FSC and Verra standards and has 
built a Verra-listed carbon offset product. 
x Secured a five-year guaranteed offtake agreement worth $94 million from 
SECA, a leading wood industry company.  
Investment Opportunity 
African Bamboo is seeking US $2 million in equity to close its US $22 million
fundraising round. The funds will be used to scale its factory in Ethiopia to fulfill
the US $94 million signed offtake agreement. The investment will cultivate up 
to 20,000 ha of bamboo in natural forests and smallholder farms.
Established            Location
2012                   Ethiopia
  The Netherlands
EmployeesSector
219Sustainable
construction                
Capital Raised 
African-Bamboo
Contact 
Sam Rosmarin
Samuel.Rosmarin@African-
Bamboo.com
African Bamboo
www. P4GPartnerships.org
12
US $20  million  committed in cash 
and assets  from DFCD and KFW 
plus a founder investment of $14m 
in cash and assets.
Leadership Team
Khalid Duri: Founder and CEO
20+ years of experience in timber, 
fintech and IT industries in Europe, 
North America and Africa
Rania Duri: Founder and COO
20+ years of experience in strategic
development, human and asset 
management, and financial 
monitoring and planning
Sam Rosmarin: Chief Investment
& Corporate Development Officer
15+ years of experience in business
and investment strategy,public 
policy, and greenfield projects in 
Ethiopia and the United States
Website
www.african-bamboo.com
Established                        Location
2019                               Ethiopia
Sector                        Employees 
12 full-timeClimate smart
agriculture                        40 part-time
      
Capital Raised 
US $85,000
Leadership Team 
solar-village-ethiopia
Contact 
Tiglu Tesfaye: Head of Agriculture 
and IrrigaƟon Department
tigletesf@gmail.com
Solar Village
www. P4GPartnerships.org
13
Mr Lebeza Alemu: Founder and 
Managing director. Has 40+ years
of experience in  ﬁnance.  An 
internaƟonal Finance & Audit
Professional, with a BA in AccounƟng.
Tiglu Tesfaye: Head of Agriculture 
and IrrigaƟon Department
15+ years of experience in agriculture 
value chains, both in private and civil 
society. Has an  MSc  in  horƟculture.
Melaku Tesema: Head of IrrigaƟon 
Department
8+ years of  experience as an irrigaƟon 
engineer in  the design and
installaƟon of solar-based irrigaƟon 
systems and drip and sprinkler 
irrigaƟon.  MSc. in hydraulic 
engineering.
Website
www.solarvillageethiopia.com
About
Solar Village Ethiopia  is a solar equipment importer, distributer and extension 
service provider company. The startup supplies smallholder farmers with 
aﬀordable and reliable solar-powered water pumps to improve their climate 
resilience.
The Challenge
Despite its potential to enhance smallholder farmers’ resilience to climate 
change and strengthen  food systems,  Ethiopia has not experienced  an  uptake 
in the  adoption of climate  smart agriculture  practices and technologies. The 
key reasons for the low adoption rate are financial and technical barriers such 
as high upfront costs, lack of credit facilities and limited availability of products 
customized for local land or weather conditions.
The  Solution
Solar Village serves smallholder farmers by delivering reliable solar-powered 
water pump technology, vermicompost  and organic seedlings for improved 
climate-smart and nutrition-sensitive agriculture practices.
Traction
Market size: The serviceable  available market for solar powered pumps and 
agritech products  including seedlings and vermicompost in Ethiopia  is around 
US $156 million  and Solar Village’s serviceable obtainable market is US $46.5 
million.
Revenue: Solar Village’s revenue has grown from US $179,700 in 2021 to US
$523,150 in 2024.  The company projects an  average growth rate of 25% per 
year for the next 5 years.
Milestones: Solar Village has reached and supported  5,000 small holder 
farmers to date.
Investment Opportunity
Solar Village Ethiopia is seeking  US  $1  million in investment for:
￿ImporƟng and distribuƟng solar powered water pumps with accessories
￿ Providing capacity building trainings for aŌersales service experts and 
beneﬁciaries
￿Supplying  improved agricultural inputs
￿CreaƟng market linkages and ensuring  quality producƟon
Estifanos, Betelhem and Friends Partnership
Established             Location
Ethiopia2022
  
EmployeesSector
                
www. P4GPartnerships.org
About
Estifanos, Betelhem and Friends Partnership specializes in transforming plastic
waste into high-quality recycled materials, promoting a circular economy and
reducing environmental pollution. By collecting, processing and repurposing
plastic into products that support water retention and irrigation, the company
promotes water resilience while supporting local communities through job
creation and waste reduction initiatives.
The Challenge
Plastic waste pollution continues to grow, with limited recycling infrastructure
and inefficient waste management systems exacerbating the problem. Large
amounts of plastic end up in landfills and the environment, contributing to
environmental degradation. There is an urgent need for scalable recycling
solutions to reduce waste, conserve resources and promote a circular economy.
The Solution
The startup collaborates with local businesses and municipalities to manage the
efficient collection of plastic waste. It uses advanced recycling technologies to
convert waste into recycled plastic products, including geomembranes and
polyethylene tubes. Geomembranes serve as impermeable liners for landfills,
reservoirs and wastewater treatment, preventing water leakage and supporting
irrigation. Polyethylene tubes aid in tree seedling growth, supporting
afforestation efforts, though their non-biodegradable nature requires proper
recycling. The startup sells these products to agricultural investors, smallholder
farmers and forest seedling producers.
Traction
Market Size: The serviceable addressable market, calculated with a focus on
Bahir Dar City Administration and four provinces, is US $3 million for
geomembrane and US $2 million for biodegradable seedling bags. The company
is targeting a 30% share of this market equivalent to US $1.5 million as its
serviceable obtainable market.
Revenue: Since 2023, the company has collected and recycled up to 370 tons of
plastic, realizing revenues of US $44,400. The startup projects revenues of US
$807,668 in 2025, their first year of full commercial operation, with a 15% year-
on–year average growth to reach US $1,449,682 in revenues by 2029 and
cumulative revenues of $5.6million.
Milestones: The company produced 30 tons of recycled products in its first year
and expanded its operations to produce 90 tons of recycled products in 2023.
The startup has reached a production capacity of 250 tons of geomembranes
and four tons of polyethylene tubes per year.
Investment Opportunity
Within the next 24 months, the Estifanos, Betelhem and Friends Partnership
plans to scale up its operations, targeting an annual collection of 800 tons of
waste and converting 667 tons into geomembranes and 78 tons into seedling
bags. This will require up to US $60,000 in equity and debt for machinery and
equipment as well as production and skills development.
14
Water                      10 full-time
resilience                40 part-time
Capital Raised
US  $13,000
Leadership Team
Estifanos Zeleke: Co-founder and 
CEO
Responsible for  the overall 
management of  Estifanos 
Betelhem and Friends .  Has a  B.S.  
in civil engineering  and certificate 
in  electromechanical  engineering.
Betelhem Gedu:  Co-founder and 
Deputy Manager
Responsible for the company’s 
data management  and providing 
both technical and  administrative 
support to the company's manager
, ensuring efficient operations and
effective  decision-making.  Holds a 
BSc in architecture and urban 
planning.
Website
www.ethioplasticrecycle.com
Contact
Estifanos Zeleke
estifanoszelleke@gmail.com
About 
agriBORA empowers African smallholder farmers with climate-smart solutions 
and increased access to essential agricultural resources and financial services. 
Through a network of agriHUBs, it provides farmers with climate-resilient seeds, 
bio-fertilizers, and sustainable advisory services. The agriHUBS function as 
reliable one-stop marketplaces that connect farmers with quality inputs and fair 
market access.
The Challenge 
Over 70% of smallholder farmers in Kenya face challenges selling produce at fair 
prices due to seasonal supply fluctuations, limited market access and 
fragmented trading networks. Poor storage practices lead to up to 40% in post-
harvest losses. This exacerbates the cycle of climate vulnerability, economic 
instability and resource-driven conflicts.
The Solution 
agriBORA is piloting a Warehouse Receipt System (WRS), to scale and integrate 
into agriHUBs. The WRS will provide secure storage and help farmers retain crop 
value, allowing them to access favorable market prices, strengthen income 
stability and reduce post-harvest losses. The WRS will be complemented by 
agriHUBs, which serve as micro-warehouses for aggregation as well as providing 
last-mile access to quality inputs such as drought-resistant seeds, organic 
fertilizers and mechanization services.
Traction 
Market size: agriBORA sees high growth potential in the Kenyan market with a 
serviceable available market of $34 billion. agriBORA’s serviceable obtainable 
market is $210 million and the startup has plans to establish 7,400 agriHUBs in 
the next five years. 
Revenue: To date, the business has generated total revenue of US $2.51 million.
Milestones: agriBORA has achieved the following milestones: 
x Built a network of over 544 digitally enabled agriHUBs between 2021 to date, 
spanning across 12 Kenyan counties, serving a minimum of 200 farmers per hub. 
This network is vital for providing farmers with access to information, quality 
inputs, fair market prices, and essential services.
x Launched agriGHALA in 2024, a pioneering service and the first of its kind in 
Kenya that integrates commodity storage, financing and trading through the 
Warehouse Receipt System (WRS).
x Stored over 3,000 bags of commodities and issued two commodity-backed 
loans to farmers. Farmers have experienced an average of 8% profit increase 
when selling.
Investment Opportunity 
US $3.5 Million to be deployed for technology enhancements, marketing, 
operation and working capital to ensure consistent supplies to agriHUBS (inputs)
and offtakers (output), resulting in increased revenues leading to profitability.
Established             Location
2019                     Kenya
  
Sector             Employees
Climate Smart       28
Agriculture          
Capital Raised 
US $3.1 million
Leadership Team 
Kizito Odhiambo: Founder & CEO
11+ years of experience in the 
agriculture sector as a two-time 
founder. His extensive background 
in fundraising, business 
development, and investor 
relations has driven agriBORA’s 
growth, securing over US $1.6 
million in grants and equity 
funding. His background is in 
Electrical Engineering and 
Information Technology
Nicolas Caspari: CTO
9+ years of experience in software 
development and environmental 
geography
Gladys Agumba: Finance Manager
A CPA with 11+ years of experience 
working as a finance controller
with finance and administration 
background.
Website 
www.agribora.com
agribora
Contact 
Kizito Odhiambo
kizito.odhiambo@agribora.com
agriBORA
www.P4GPartnerships.org
15
Established             Location
Kenya2016
  
EmployeesSector
50Climate smart
agriculture
Capital Raised 
US $1.42 million
Leadership Team 
Samuel Munguti: CEO
15+ years of experience in
marketing, strategic management, 
and last-mile distribution across 
FMCG, energy, and agriculture. Held 
various roles at Coca-Cola, L'Oréal, 
and Colgate-Palmolive.
Nancy Mutuku: Co-founder & Head 
of Admin and Logistics
10+ years of experience in last-mile 
agri-distribution. Held multiple roles
at Osho Agrochemicals Limited and 
Loreal Company.
Patrick Sampao: Chief Product 
Officer
Seasoned product manager with 
expertise in product development, 
partnerships, and stakeholder 
engagement. 10+ years of 
experience at ACRE Africa and 
Mdundo.com.
Website 
www.shambapride.com
Contact
Samuel Munguti
samuel.munguti@shambapride.com
Shamba Pride
www.P4GPartnerships.org
1616
About
Shamba Pride is transforming the rural agricultural trade ecosystem in Africa
by equipping  agricultural input distributors, known as agro-dealers, with digital 
tools and technology that strengthens their capacity to provide quality
products, services and information to smallholder farmers. This approach 
ensures farmers have access to essential resources, fostering sustainable 
improvements in farm productivity.
The Challenge
Smallholder farmers in Kenya face major challenges, such as limited access to 
quality agricultural inputs, services, and reliable market information. These
barriers reduce their productivity and income. The agricultural sector also 
suffers from inefficiencies caused by multiple intermediaries, which drive up 
costs and lower farmers' profits. Solving these issues is essential for improving 
food security and boosting the livelihoods of rural communities.
The Solution
Shamba Pride  facilitates  the last-mile delivery of agricultural inputs directly 
from suppliers to agro-dealers.  The startup  also enables market linkages  that
bring  registered farmers’ harvested produce to digi-shops, where Shamba
Pride facilitates delivery  to buyers.  Finally, it offers credit to agro-dealers based 
on inventory, with repayment due in 30 days.  Shamba Pride is currently 
operating in Kenya, as well as planning future expansion into Uganda, Zambia 
and Tanzania.
Traction
Market size: In Kenya, the total addressable market is estimated at  US  $305 
million, based on the average order values traded by agro-dealers combined 
with the average produce of farmers. Shamba Pride is targeting 10,000 agro-
dealers, representing the serviceable available market of US $105 million.
Revenue: To date  Shamba Pride has reached  60,000 farmers and 2,900 agro-
dealers.  The business has earned a total cumulative revenue of US $10 million
since inception, with an average customer monthly order value of US $1,500.
The business has seen a month-over-month revenue growth  of over 10%,
driven by input sales, market linkages and “Buy Now, Pay Later”  transactions.
The cost of acquiring each digi-shop is $1,300, with a payback period of 6 to 8 
months.
Investment Opportunity
Shamba Pride seeks to raise US $5 million in equity and debt. The funds will be 
used for:
￿Agro-dealer and digi-shop network  expansion
￿Strategic product development
￿Technology platform optimization
￿Team advancement
Forestwise
Established               Location                      
2018                           The Netherlands       
                      Indonesia 
Sector               Employees
Climate smart 53
agriculture 
Capital Raised 
US $700,000
Leadership Team 
Dirk-Jan Oudshoorn: Co-Founder & CEO
16+ years of experience in 
environmental conservation with a 
specialization in sustainable products 
Alexander van Oord: CCO
15+ years of experience leading 
businesses in emerging markets 
Marcha Adiwara Prawita: Project 
Manager
10+ years of experience managing 
complex projects rooted in 
environmental sustainability and social 
impact 
Website 
www.forestwise.earth
forestwise
Contact
Dirk-Jan Oudshoorn
dirkjan.oudshoorn@forestwise.earth 
Alexander van Oord
alexander.vanoord@forestwise.earth
Marcha Adiwara Prawita
marcha.adiwara@forestwise.earth
www. P4GPartnerships.org
About
Forestwise sells sustainable rainforest products, such as illipe butter, a cocoa
butter equivalent, creating economic incentives to help preserve forests in
Borneo and improve the income of community residents. The startup is the
world's leading supplier of traceable wild-harvested rainforest products.
The Challenge
Borneo has lost 56% of its original rainforest with the province of West
Kalimantan in Indonesia losing 77% tree cover loss from 2013 to 2021 which
affected the biodiversity and local communities’ livelihood. Areas of the
province have poverty rates that are higher than the national average. On
the other hand, demand for cocoa butter equivalent products is rising
because of deforestation and the volatility of cocoa supply and prices.
The Solution
Forestwise helps preserve the rainforests of Borneo by producing wild-
harvested rainforest ingredients such as illipe butter that make it more
profitable to preserve rainforests and improve local livelihoods. Illipe butter
is a cocoa butter equivalent that can be used for a range of cosmetic and
confectionery products.
Forestwise generates revenue by selling rainforest products such as illipe
butter and kukui nut oil for the cosmetics and food industries, along with
illipe waste repurposed for farm feed and fertilizer. Forestwise is also
exploring natural rubber and arenga sugar to provide farmers with a steady
year-round income between Illipe nut harvests.
Traction
Market size : The service available market is around US $4.2 billion and
Forestwise’s obtainable market is 0.16% which amounts to US $0.68 billion.
Revenue: By Q4 2024, Forestwise generated US $1.4 million in revenue. The
business has seen more than a 300% increase in revenue with 907% year-
over-year growth.
Milestones: Forestwise has achieved the following milestones
x Partnered with confectionery manufacturers in Europe, the USA and
Australia to incorporate Illipe butter into their products. This expansion is
expected to benefit 1,800 farmers.
x Expanded the collection area from 36,000 ha to 44,300 ha and established
hubs in five districts to improve logistics. The farmer network grew from
1,000 to 1,836 across 70 villages their annual income increased by 16% from
illipe nuts alone.
x Established traceability tools and a sustainability strategy.
Investment Opportunity
Forestwise is seeking US $3 million in grants, equity and convertible loans to
help strengthen its sustainable supply chain, operations, and infrastructure
to meet the increased demand for illipe butter and kukui nut oil and to
develop new product lines. The capital will be used to procure raw materials,
improve operational capacity, strengthen transportation and infrastructure,
integrate renewable energy into production, human resources, product
diversification and waste management.
17
About
The AgriLogiq advances an integrated and automated greenhouse farming 
system that helps farmers in South Africa maximize yields while minimizing 
energy, water and chemical consumption.  
The Challenge 
African agriculture struggles with shrinking arable land, limited access to 
modern tools, and costly precision technologies. Most farmers lack real-time 
monitoring for crops, water, and climate impact. Inefficient irrigation also leads 
to significant water waste, demanding scalable solutions for sustainable growth.
The Solution 
AgriLogiq empowers farmers by providing them with tools to "listen" to their 
farms’ needs, optimizing resource use and increasing yields. The integrated 
solution is built around asset-light, proprietary software and hardware designed 
to assist farmers from seed to harvest. 
AgriLogiq provides cost-effective, modular solutions suited for smaller, 
resource-limited farms, making advanced automation more accessible in 
developing regions. AgriLogiq's greenhouse system automates farming activities 
such as climate control, irrigation and fertigation, and enables modern farming 
practices such as vertical, hydroponic and aeroponic farming systems. The 
startup operates a dual revenue model based on hardware sales and a scalable 
SaaS (Software-as-a-Service) offering.
Traction 
Market Size: The global agri-tech market is expected to grow significantly, 
reaching approximately US $22 billion by 2025. Within South Africa alone, 
medium-to-high-tech undercover farming systems are valued at over US $54 
million. Estimated at US $4.4 billion, AgriLogiq’s serviceable available market 
aligns with farmers looking for advanced, scalable farming technologies. 
AgriLogiq targets mid-sized farms and resellers in South Africa, Kenya, and 
Morocco. Coupled with an IP-deployable strategy to outlying time zone areas its 
serviceable obtainable market is estimated at US $1.4 billion
Revenue: The startup has generated US $300,000 in revenue which represents
3X growth in 2024. AgriLogiq has also raised seed funding of US $500,000 in 
2025. 
Milestones: Agriloqiq has deployed over 50 systems into various farms across 
South Africa and neighboring countries and is the preferred technology provider 
for Haygrove, a UK-based global greenhouse solution firm supplying to countries 
in Africa and the rest of the world. 
Investment Opportunity 
This round is capped at US $650 000 with US $400 000 already secured. The 
investment will be split across continued feature development, 
commercialization and expansion as well as marketing and working capital.
Established             Location
2020                   South Africa
  
Sector             Employees
Water                       15
resilience             
Capital Raised       
US $550,000
Leadership Team 
Joel van der Schyff: Co-Founder 
and CEO
Qualified mechanical and electrical 
engineer (millwright) and MBA 
graduate with 15+ years of 
business ownership and 
management experience. Joel has 
extensive experience in capital 
equipment and automation within 
food and fruit packing.
Johnny Fonsesca: Co-Founder
Process improvement professional 
with 20+ years of expertise in 
business and operations 
leadership, employee coaching, 
and problem-solving in industrial 
manufacturing.
Website 
www.agrilogiq.com
agrilogiq
Contact 
Joel van der Schyff
joel@agrilogiq.com
AgriLogiq
www.P4GPartnerships.org
18
About 
AVALVE is a Korean smart farm technology company specializing in artificial 
intelligence solutions for sustainable agriculture. The startup is expanding its 
smart farm technology to smallholder farmers in Northern Vietnam. 
The Challenge 
Around 44% of Vietnam’s population works in the agriculture sector and 89% 
of farmers in the country are smallholders. There is high water and fertilizer 
use in crop cultivation in Vietnam that has high environmental and health 
costs. 
The Solution 
AVALVE has a hydroponic smart farm solution that uses AI to monitor crops 
and introduces efficient water and energy management in crop production. 
The system reduces water usage by 90% and increases crop productivity by 
300%. AVALVE sells and trains smallholders on this smart farm technology with 
specific attention to producing high-value crops like Korean strawberries. 
Traction
Market size: The global smart farm market is valued at US $21.6 billion, with 
AVALVE’s addressable smart farm solution market alone reaching US $9.1 
billion, presenting a significant growth opportunity.
Revenue: AVALVE has generated approximately US $5,936,000 in revenue until 
2024 with a 2022-2023 year-over-year growth of 84%.
Milestones: AVALVE has achieved significant technological and smart farm 
installation milestones including: 
x Collecting standardized crop growth data through various sensor modules to 
build a big data system
x Using deep learning technology to create optimal crop cultivation guidelines 
based on crop type and smart farm hardware.
x Using camera and AI technology for real-time crop monitoring, with AI 
automatically creating optimal conditions for maximizing production.
x Providing smart farm construction services and supporting crop cultivation 
and distribution.
Investment Opportunity 
AVALVE is seeking $10 million in equity investment to support the next phase 
of growth. The investment will be primarily used for:
x Scaling Operations: Expanding the AI-based smart farm solutions globally, 
with a focus on Southeast Asia, including Vietnam, Thailand and Cambodia.
x R&D and Product Development: Enhancing the AI technology for increased 
efficiency and resource optimization.
x Market Penetration: Strengthening marketing and distribution channels to 
secure more partnerships and increase sales of high-value crops like 
strawberries, wasabi, and mushroom etc.
Established             Location
2019                       Re public of Korea
     Vietnam
Sector            Employees
Agriculture            20
Capital Raised 
US $1,038,300 in equity
Leadership Team 
Park Kyu Tae: CEO
A Forbes 30 under 30 entrepreneur 
specializing in AI-based smart 
farming
Bong Jin Sun: COO
An entrepreneur with experience 
launching start-ups and AI 
technology
Hee Soo Park: CTO
Former CEO of Valuebridge with 24 
years of experience in leading R&D
Park Kyung Chan: AI Team Leader
PhD in Artificial Intelligence
Website 
www.avalve.co.kr
Contact
Park Kyu Tae, CEO
kpark0809@avalve.co.kr
AVALVE
www.P4GPartnerships.org
19
Established             Location
2022                   Vietnam
  
Sector             Employees
Climate Smart       24
Agriculture 
Capital Raised
US $500,000
Leadership Team 
Dzung Nguyen: CEO & Co-founder
Experienced urban planner, 
specializing in regional urban 
planning and design. With 
expertise in technology-driven 
solutions.
Dr. Ho Long Phi: Co-founder and 
CTO
Expertise in climate resilience and 
sustainable agriculture. Former 
member of the National Advisory 
Council on Climate Change.
Vuong Phan Lien: Co-Founder & 
BOD
Urban management expert with 
over 10 years of experience in 
strategic planning, large-scale 
development, and multidisciplinary 
projects.
Website 
www.enfarm.com
enfarm-agritech
Contact 
Nguyen Do Dzung
dzung.nguyen@enfarm.co
enfarm
www. P4GPartnerships.org
20
About
enfarm is transforming precision agriculture in Southeast Asia and beyond with 
cutting-edge soil sensing technology. The startup’s AI-powered device provides 
real-time, lab-precision soil nutrient analysis and actionable recommendations,
enabling farmers to optimize yields, cut input costs, and enhance sustainability.
The Challenge
Excessive fertilizer use wastes $120 billion annually, depletes soil health and 
contributes 5% of global greenhouse gas emissions. In Vietnam, farmers use 2.5 
times the global average, losing two months' income annually to inefficiency.
With food demand projected to rise 70% by 2050 and net-zero targets looming,
optimizing fertilizer use is imperative.
The  Solution
Enfarm’s smart soil sensor and AI-driven platform provides lab-precision insights 
at 10-15% of traditional costs, helps  farmers cut fertilizer use by 30%, increase 
yields, and boost income by up to 200%. The solution includes:
￿Proprietary real-time soil sensing technology for precision agriculture.
￿AI-powered recommendations for optimized farm management.
￿Exclusive soil and crop data to drive innovation in fertilizers and 
agribusiness.
￿Early global expansion, starting with the Philippines within a year of  
launch.
￿Industry recognition through prestigious awards and rapid market 
adoption.
Traction
Market size:  enfarm’s scalable technology addresses a  US  $19 billion market in 
device leasing and sales, with future expansion into the  US  $200 billion fertilizer 
market through developing new highly effective fertilisers leveraging on crop 
and soil insights.
Revenue: enfarm has generated US  $500,000  in revenue.
Milestones: enfarm has achieved the following milestones:
￿Deployed  500 sensors  in Vietnam.
  x  Secured a contract to provide technology and technical assistance for
30,000 hectares of coffee farms in the Philippines.
  x  Received global acclaim, winning the 2024 Market Readiness Award at the 
Agrifood Tech World Championship and ranking among the Top 5 AI Products in 
Vietnam. Additionally,  enfarm has been selected to showcase  its model  at the 
2025 AI Action Summit in Paris as a Top 50 AI Project, cementing  its  leadership
in agricultural technology.
Investment Opportunity
enfarm seeks  US  $1  -  $2  million in equity funding to drive  product innovation 
and international expansion. Funds will support R&D, sales growth  and  strategic 
partnerships  to  accelerate  global adoption.
Sub-Sector Focus
Food Loss  
and Waste  
Reduction 
Established                     Location
2019                               Colombia
Sector                   Employees
Food loss and waste         23
Capital Raised 
US $650,000
Leadership Team 
Carlos Fernández: CEO and Co-
founder 
20+ years of experience in private 
equity. Currently an operating 
partner at EWA Capital and founder 
of Blum, a venture studio focused on 
gender-oriented in Spain and LatAm.
MBA from IE Business School and a 
Master’s in Corporate Finance. 
Andrés Camargo: CTO and Co-
founder
10+ years of experience studying the 
Black Soldier Fly and has managed 
advised outputs projects with a 
capacity of +5030 tons waste per 
month
Román Parra: CPO and Co-founder.  
6+ years of experience in the edible 
insect industry and 4+ years of 
experience in industrial biowaste 
facilities. Founder of the Latam 
Edible Industry Association.
Website
www.residua.bio
residua-biocircular
Contact 
Diego Villamil
diego@residua.bio
Residua Biocircular
www. P4GPartnerships.org
22
About
Residua  Biocircular  is a startup creating value from organic waste through 
circular economy models and Black Soldier Fly Larvae (BSFL) bioconversion 
technology. To date it  has  treated over 600 tons of waste  in Colombia and 
plans to  expand in Colombia, Mexico and Central America.
The Challenge
The world faces a significant waste management crisis, generating more than 2 
billion tons of municipal solid waste annually, with organic waste making up
44%. By 2030, this is projected to increase to 2.58 billion tons, yet only 13.5%
is recycled and 5.5%  is  composted. In Latin America, about 215.3 million tons 
of waste are generated each year, with organic waste at 52%, but 39% is
poorly disposed of, mostly in open dumps or incineration. Recovery rates 
remain below 4%, posing public health risks, especially for vulnerable 
populations.
The Solution
Residua Biocircular  offers a fully scalable and sustainable solution that 
leverages industrial organic waste to create value-added products using 
insects. This circular approach produces a diverse range of products, including 
protein flour and protein oil for pet food, poultry feed and aquaculture, as well 
as biofertilizers for high-value agricultural crops.
Traction
Market  size: The global animal protein feed market is projected to increase 
from US $301 billion in 2024 to  US  $372 billion by 2028, with a CAGR of 5.1%.
Colombia and Mexico are seeing growth rates of 3.8% and 6.2%, respectively,
driven by rising demand for meat and animal products. The serviceable 
obtainable market for Residua Biocircular  is  about US  $50 million  by 2030.
Revenue: In revenue terms, FY 2023 was dedicated to plant construction and 
product development. Company sales began in 2024  and totaled  US  $45,000 
from January to December 2024, with an annualized run rate of US $120,000 
by EOY.
Milestones: Residua Biocircular  has achieved the following milestones:
x  Processing capacity of 60 tons of waste per month
x  Generating revenue through sales to regional pet food producers
x  Signing  agreements  with major agrifood producers in Colombia, securing the
waste supply at no cost for its  actual and upcoming  plants
x  Successfully launching a decentralized bioconversion pilot for rural 
communities
x  Collaborating with CIAT (CGIAR) to develop insect farming technology in
LATAM
Investment Opportunity
Residua Biocircular  is seeking US $2  million  in a seed round  either as equity or 
convertible debt  (already has investment commitments totaling US $700k
from impact funds and  other funding organizations). The investment is for  its
expansion in Colombia and Mexico and  achieving a combined processing 
capacity of 400  tons of waste per month.
Established                Location
2020                        Ethiopia
Sector              Employees
Food security                      13
Capital Raised 
US $28,730
Leadership Team 
Roman Worku: Co-founder & CEO
Financial sector expert with 13+ 
years of experience in the Ethiopian 
banking industry. Extensive 
expertise in investment, risk 
assessment and portfolio 
management. 
Melat Tekaligne: Chief Strategic 
Officer
Management consultant and policy 
advisor with 13+ years of 
experience. Specialization in 
manufacturing, agro-processing and 
hospitality industry. Seasoned in 
strategic planning, capital raising, 
policy advisory, performance 
evaluation and client management. 
Nareem Adem: Partnerships & 
Markets Advisor 
Private sector development expert 
with 13+ years of experience in 
transaction advisory services, 
fundraising and business 
development. 
Aifa-foods 
Contact
Roman Worku: Co-founder and CEO
Romanworku19@gmail.com
Yarashoo Agro Industry 
www. P4GPartnerships.org
About
Yarashoo Agro Industry was established to address market linkage challenges
in agricultural trade and add valu e to fresh produce. In July 2022, it
introduced Aifa Foods, a brand of dried fruit products that have a shelf life of
up to 12 months.
The Challenge
Farmers in Ethiopia face significant post-harvest losses due to poor handling
practices, limited use of technology and a lack of value addition. They also
struggle with limited market access, making it difficult to sell their products,
and experience challenges from the mismatch between supply and demand
that is compounded by seasonal fluctuations. The under development of
value addition in agricultural pro ducts further exacerbates the problem,
resulting in low returns for value chain players, limited access to processing
and preservation technologies and inadequate technical expertise.
The Solution
Yarashoo Agro Industry, through its Aifa Foods brand, reduces post-harvest
losses by introducing advanced preserv ation and storage techniques, while
adding value to fresh produce with he althy, nutritious snacks for local and
export markets. In addition, Aifa supports farmers by building their capacity
in handling, processing, and storage,  enhancing their technical skills and
access to modern technologies.
Traction
Market Size: The current global market for dried fruits is about US $147
million. In Ethiopia, the total servic eable available market is about US $38
million with the serviceable obtainable market being US $3.4 million.
Revenue: The startup has generated US $9000 in revenue to date and expects
to grow by US $110,062 by the end of 2025 and US $23 million by year 10.
Milestones: Yarashoo has achieved the following milestones:
● Yarashoo products are currently displayed in 20 outlets, including
supermarkets and restaurants. They anticipate expanding their subscription
services to prominent clients like Et hiopian Airlines and the African Union.
They are exploring the export reach to Kenya, Uganda, Europe, USA and the
U.A.E.
● Yarashoo, through its farmers outreach program, engages over 250
farmers, ensuring a steady supply of fresh produce while offering training on
production, harvesting, post-harvest ha ndling (such as drying), and farm-
level packaging
Investment Opportunity
Yarashoo is seeking US $850,000 in equity, debt and grant to upgrade its
processing technology and facilities, enhance quality control; and invest in
farmer training programs.
23
Established                     Location
Indonesia2022
EmployeesSectors
Food loss and waste         ~25
Climate smart agriculture     
Renewable energy
Capital Raised 
US $1.5m in equity
Leadership Team 
Pawel Kuznicki: Founder and CEO
Tech entrepreneur with experience 
in healthcare, fintech, and e-
commerce. He has led teams of 50+ 
people and managed businesses 
generating revenues exceeding US 
$20 million, successfully raising US 
$6 million in equity and facilitating 
over US $100 million in debt 
financing.
Mohammad Shofie: Director of 
Operations
An energy expert with 8+ years of 
experience in the biogas industry, 
holding both commercial and 
technical roles in several 
multinational companies.
Website 
www.wastex.io
wastexio
Contact 
Pawel Kuznicki: Founder and CEO
pawel@wastex.io
WasteX
www. P4GPartnerships.org24
About
WasteX is a climate-tech startup offering an end-to-end integrated biochar 
solution to agricultural producers and farms.
The Challenge
WasteX is addressing the issue of 3.5 billion tons of agricultural processing 
waste globally that is either dumped, burned or sold cheaply. This waste 
contributes to climate change, as biomass burning  and decomposition are
significant sources of emissions. Additionally, farmers face multiple pressures,
including rising fertilizer costs and soil degradation, which threaten their 
livelihoods.
The  Solution
WasteX offers an integrated biochar solution that transforms agricultural 
residues into biochar, a carbon-rich product that can improve soil health,
enhance crop yields and reduce fertilizer usage. This solution not only provides 
farmers with additional income and operational improvements but also helps 
mitigate climate change by capturing and storing carbon. The company's 
approach includes proprietary biochar equipment, enabling services and a 
guarantee of carbon credits.
Traction
Market size: Globally, the biochar market is projected to reach US $6.3 billion 
by 2031, while in Indonesia, it is expected to grow from US $46.2 million in 
2023 to over $1.7 billion by 2033. This expansion is driven by strong 
government support for sustainable agriculture and carbon sequestration 
initiatives, resulting in a serviceable obtainable market of US  $800 million for 
WasteX.  Additionally, the recent launch of the Indonesia Carbon Exchange 
provides a robust platform for carbon credit trading, further enhancing
WasteX's potential.  The startup is aiming to sell over  biochar at US $200 per 
ton and generate carbon credits at a minimum of US $100 per ton of  carbon 
emissions, with an annual recurring revenue of $50,000 per facility and gross 
margin of 30-40%.
Revenue: In 2024  WasteX generated US $180,000  in revenue. The startup 
anticipates breaking even  in 2025, projecting annual revenues of US  $1.4
million  with a gross margin of 40%  and 120 units sold.
Milestones: WasteX has achieved the following milestones:
x  WasteX's proprietary equipment has proven to increase agricultural yields by
up to 95% while reducing fertilizer use by 50%.
x  The company has sold ~25  units  and established 3  operational facilities that 
have produced >50  tons of biochar and removed  >60  tons of carbon 
emissions.
Investment Opportunity
The company is currently fundraising for US  $1.5  million equity (1st closing
was  completed in February 2025) to establish a more substantial financial 
buffer, scale up operations in Indonesia  and  India,  support product 
development and working capital.
Established                   Location                
2019                                 Indonesia     
                      
Sector                  Employees
Food loss and waste         20
Food rescue 
Capital Raised 
US $373,600
Leadership Team 
Muhammad Hafid Rosidin: Founder 
and CEO
A climate entrepreneur with a 
background in agroindustrial
technology and experience with 
startup strategy and management
Mutia Khonza: Co-founder and COO
A food scientist with experience in 
creating innovative solutions to 
address food loss and waste issues 
Website 
www.halobiki.com
BIKI
Contact 
Muhammad Hafid Rosidin: Founder 
and CEO
hafid@halobiki.com
BIKI
www. P4GPartnerships.org
25
About
BIKI  offers an integrated solution to  reduce food loss  at the processing stage 
while improving food security through unsold produce distribution to those in 
need.  The startup has developed main innovation Chitasil, an edible natural 
coating made from shrimp shells that doubles the shelf life of fruits and 
vegetables  that integrated with traceability system.
The Challenge
More than 60% of fruits and vegetables are lost or wasted  in Indonesia 
annually, costing the country more than  US $320 million. More than 30% of 
the loss occurs at the post-harvest and processing stages, which in turn 
reduces farmer incomes.
The  Solution
BIKI offers an end-to-end solution  that prevents  food loss and waste at the 
production until consumption  stage  through  agritech products, predicts  the 
shelf life of fruits and vegetables through an app, connects farmers to modern 
market and exporters, and sets up food  rescue points (BIKI points) to process 
and distribute unsold produce to those in need.
The business generates revenue from:
￿ Agritech products including Kito-B  Nano bio booster  and Chitasil edible 
coating
￿Trade collaboration for selling fruit and vegetable local and export
￿Profit sharing from access to financing to farmers packing house
￿Subscription service for BIKI Trace apps
Traction
Market size: The service available  market  for its edible coating and agritech 
products in Indonesia is around US  $218.75  million  and BIKI’s serviceable 
obtainable market is US $6.08  million.
Revenue: In 2023, the startup generated US $17,160  in revenue and  increased 
its revenue by 1336% to US  $229,300  in 2024.
Milestones:  BIKI has established 12 BIKI food rescue points at markets in 2024.
By 2025, it will have scaled to establish 30 BIKI food rescue points and  have 
prevented  the loss of 5,000 tons of fruits and vegetables. The startup will have 
empowered 500 farmers and 100 women  to improve the  agrifood ecosystem
Investment Opportunity
BIKI is fundraising is US $500,000  in  equity and debt. This will be used to:
￿Replicate 30 BIKI Points and Initiation BIKI Trade for Export
￿Expand agritech products use cases across multiple commodities
￿Enhance traceability systems to improve food loss & waste management
￿Invest in R&D and advanced processing equipment
￿Scale digital marketing, sales promotions, and activations
RE:harvest
Established                     Location
2019                                 South Korea
EmployeesSector
Food loss and waste            24
Capital Raised 
US $8.3 million 
www. P4GPartnerships.org
About
RE:harvest is a food upcycling company that processes Brewer's Spent Grain
(BSG) waste to produce food products. These by-products from food
manufacturing are transformed into flour that is calorie-free, sugar-free, and
rich in protein and fiber, providing consumers with a healthy alternative to
traditional flour.
The Challenge
BSG, which is primarily composed of barley, is a byproduct produced during the
beer brewing process. BSG is rich in protein and fiber, making it a promising
nutritional alternative to low-fiber foods. Unfortunately, it is often considered
"used" and categorized as food waste that must be disposed.
The Solution
RE: harvest transforms BSG and associated grain-based by-products into
nutritious products, including alternative flour and energy powders suitable for
consumer food items like granola bars and baked goods. Upcycling BSG helps
divert tons of food waste from landfills, positively impacting the environment.
According to an internal analysis, the production of 1 kg of flour saves 11 kg of
carbon emissions, 3.7 tons of water and diverts 3 kg of food waste.
Traction
Market size: The total addressable market is US $34 billion and RE:harvest’s
serviceable obtainable market is US 3.5 million.
Revenue: In 2024, the startup has generated US $1,842,662 in revenue.
Milestones: RE:harvest has achieved the following milestones:
x Korea’s First Food Upcycling Company
x World's largest single upcycled raw material production capacity and expertise
(End-to-End)
Investment Opportunity
RE:harvest is currently raising US $3 – 5 million in equity (Marketing 55%,
Product R&D 35%, Operation 10%). This will be used to launch a B2C product,
expand overseas (USA and Indonesia), conduct proactive R&D for market entry,
and offset the operational costs of workforce expansion
26
Leadership Team
Alex Min: CEO
A CEO with experience setting up 
restaurant franchices in Korea, Min
is a former consultant with PwC 
specializing in factory efficiency and 
go-to-market strategies.
Website
https://en.reharvest.net
Contact
Alex Min
alex@reharvest.net
Surplus Indonesia
Established                     Location                    
2020                     
                      
EmployeesSector
Surplus-Indonesia
Contact
Agung Saputra, Founder and CEO
agungsaputramuhammad@gmail.com
www. P4GPartnerships.org27
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
    
 
  
    
 
 
  
   
  
￿     
￿    
￿  
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
    
 
  
    
 
 
  
   
 
Indonesia
Food rescue                    20
Capital Raised
US $1 million
Leadership Team
Agung Saputra: Founder and CEO
A climate entrepreneur who was 
awarded the Forbes 30 under 30 Asia in
2024 for Consumer Technology. He was
also awarded the  Youth Category 
Winner  of the 2024  Asia-Pacific 
Economic Cooperation (APEC) Bio-
Circular-Green (BCG) Award.
Arvian Prabawa:  Co-founder and VP of 
Business Development. He has 9+ years
experiences in Ops, Sales & Business 
Development. He has raised seed 
capital with previous company
Debby Lufiasita:  Co-founder and VP of 
Marketing & Branding. She has 11+
years’ experience in branding,
consulting, media & public relation
Website
www.surplus.id
About
Surplus Indonesia is a Food Rescue and  Clearance Marketplace 4.0, helping 
businesses sell surplus, overstocked and imperfect food for discounts of up
to 80% discount or more. Surplus  connects  food retailers with consumers 
looking for affordable and sustainable food options.
The Challenge
Indonesia ranks as the second-largest producer of food waste globally, with 
115–184 kg of food wasted per person annually, leading to US $39 billion in 
economic losses. Meanwhile, over 22 million Indonesians face food
insecurity. This paradox of excess and scarcity highlights the urgent need
for systematic food rescue and  clearance marketplace solutions.
The  Solution
Surplus Indonesia has evolved into a comprehensive clearance marketplace,
offering  the Surplus app  where businesses sell surplus or imperfect food 
directly to consumers; a juice bar that repurposes imperfect fruits; EV
mobile carts and vending machines delivering upcycled juices and 
smoothies; a supermarket selling overstock food products; and an AI-
powered inventory  management  system to help businesses "Predict, Price
& Distribute" surplus inventory efficiently, ensuring waste reduction and 
revenue maximization.
Traction
Market size: The serviceable available market for food service in Indonesia
is US $49 billion and the serviceable obtainable market for Surplus is an 
estimated US $7.5 billion.
Revenue:  Surplus Indonesia  achieved profitability in October 2024  with an 
average 20% month-to-month revenue growth that year. Gross profit 
margins were around 84%  month-over-month in 2024.  Surplus has had an
average  5X  year-on-year  growth since 2020. The business generates 
revenue from transaction fees, consumer payments, delivery fees, and
retail & offline sales.
Surplus has 1,000,000 customers and has rescued more than 500 tons of 
food. The startup has helped more than 6,000 businesses prevent an 
estimated $610,000 in losses, and has avoided 1 million tons of carbon
emissions.
Milestones:  Surplus received B Corp certification in 2022. In 2023, the 
startup received a  Google Play  award for  the "Best App for Good"
(honorable mention) among 25,000 apps in the world. Surplus was  the Gold
Winner of Asean Digital Awards 2025 in Thailand.
Investment Opportunity
Surplus has opened its seed round to raise US $3 million in equity to:
  Scale its B2C Ecosystem and acquire 5 million customers + 10,000 F&B 
merchants
  Scale its O2O Ecosystem and establish 10 experience stores, 50 Vending 
machines & 200 EV mobile carts fleet
  Launch an AI-Powered Surplus Food Inventory, Tracking & Forecasting 
platform
Established             Location
Indonesia2019
  
EmployeesSector
22Food Loss
And Waste
Capital Raised 
US $250,000
Leadership Team 
Adi R. Nugroho: Co-Founder and 
CEO
Leading the development of 
sustainable biomaterials for 
fashion and construction. 
Experienced entrepreneur with a 
background in architecture, 
recognized globally for innovation 
in circular economy solutions.
Ronaldiaz Hartantyo: Chief 
Business Development                 
10+ years of experience in 
production and R&D with focus on 
conservation.
Robbi Zidni: Chief of Production 
Officer & Co-Founder
10+ years of experience in 
environmental operational with 
Architecture background
Website 
www.MYCL.bio
MYCL-Mycotech
Contact 
Adi R. Nugroho
adi@mycl.bio
www. P4GPartnerships.org
28
MYCL
About
MYCL develops eco-friendly biomaterials  using mycelium technology to create 
sustainable alternatives for fashion, packaging and construction. By harnessing 
fungal networks, MYCL aims to reduce environmental impact and promote a 
circular economy.
The Challenge
The  leather  industry  faces  high  carbon  emissions,  while  mycelium  leather 
struggles to meet demand with a 13,900% supply gap. Meanwhile, Indonesia's  
agri-crop waste, a major food loss contributor, emits 40 million tons of  carbon 
emissions  annually.  Inefficient  disposal  worsens  environmental  damage,
highlighting the need for sustainable solutions.
The Solution
MYCL  converts agricultural waste into a range of products  that can be used for 
bags, shoes, sustainable and decorative  building materials. The solution reduces 
carbon emissions by 52% compared to traditional leather. A few of its products 
include:
￿Mylea –  Leather-like material made from Mushroom Mycelium
￿Biobo  –  Multifunctional Mycelium composite board
￿MYCL Composite –  Solid-composite material
Traction
Market size: The serviceable available  alternative leather market is about US
150 billion. Within this market, the demand for mycelium leather is about $  US 
28 billion. In meter terms, the demand for  mycelium  leather is  about 280 million 
square feet a year while the supply is only 2 million square feet a year,  giving 
MYCL significant room for growth.
Revenue:  MYCL  has  generated  almost  US  $60,000  in  revenue  over  the  last 
twelve months with a 202% year-over-year growth. The startup has had a gross  
margin of 43%.
Milestones:  MYCL has achieved the following milestones:
  x  Finalist in The Earthshot Prize 2024,  MIT SOLVER 2019  and KEHATI social  
enterprise award 2023
  x  Notable  Customer:  Doublet;  Japanese  award  winner  in  LVMH  Prize 
Winning Designer, featured in Paris Fashion Week
￿2 Patents for Leather Substitute and Composite Material
  x  Expanded a processing facility to Japan  and has a customer base of foreign 
companies (e.g., USA, Australia, Europe)
Investment Opportunity
MYCL is currently fundraising  for an equity and debt investment of  between  US
$1  -  $3.5  million. Funds will be dedicated to process optimization, cost efficiency 
measures,  advancing  quality  improvements,  increasing  the  processing  facility,
and enhancing  research  and  development efforts.

About 
Adagin helps farmers optimize their profitability, yield and quality by providing 
real-time data and insights through innovative hardware and software solutions. 
Adagin’s competitive edge lies in their specialization between the “Plant and the 
Pallet,” i.e. the first leg of the food supply chain.
The Challenge 
Farmers are facing increasing challenges related to profitability and 
sustainability. The recent surge in costs has significantly reduced farmers’ 
margins and they are unable to easily locate their pain points due to archaic 
methods of doing business and a lack of real-time data. The current methods 
being used include paper-based systems and unpractical and bulky hardware, 
which leads to poor packing systems, lack of accurate labor costing, as well as 
no traceability or performance insights
The Solution 
The Adagin platform enables farmers to precisely manage their costs, 
specifically relating to harvesting, packing and labor, while also optimizing key 
factors affecting their yield and profitability. The startup digitizes farmers’ 
systems, providing real-time data and insights via a cloud-based platform.
Traction
Market Size: The global horticulture market was valued at US $32.3 billion in 
2021, and is projected to reach US $65 billion by 2030. South Africa's 
agricultural sector, with more than 40,000 farms has shown consistent 
expansion over the past two years. The sector employs a substantial workforce
of more than 757,600 employees. The expected serviceable available market 
would be 4,643 horticultural farms with the serviceable obtainable market being 
1000 horticultural farms. 
Revenue: Adagin has generated US $2.1 million in revenue since inception. The 
company generated US $411,263 in 2024.
Milestones: Adagin has achieved the following milestones:
x Grown from processing the pay of 120 employees to 3,300 employees
processed monthly, with a total wage expense of roughly US $452,000 – US 
$1.69 million. 
x Grown from one farmer customer with 250 workers to 19 farmers employing a 
total of 8,000 people in peak season from January 2020. 
x Expanded into 4 countries including Ecuador, Egypt, Australia and Namibia.
x Developed a new product called "Precision Bin & Team Tracking" that 
generates 4x-5x the normal product's revenue and has a larger target market 
due to multiple crop and seasonal alignment.
Investment Opportunity 
Adagin is seeking to raise US $5.2 million for international expansion with the 
following split in investment:
x Growth & Expansion - 50%
x Innovation & Development - 35%
x Marketing & Sales – 15%
ADAGIN TECHNOLOGIES
www. P4GPartnerships.org
Established                Location
2018                        South Africa
Sector                     Employees
Climate smart  8
agriculture                            
Capital Raised 
US $674,000
Leadership Team 
Fredrik Gideon Adriaanse: Founder 
&C E O
Master's degree in logistics and has 
developed a bin-carrying harness 
system that enabledhim to establish 
strong relationships within the 
farming industry
JD Naude: COO
Mechanical Engineer with significant 
expertise in product development 
and engineering consulting
Justin Vellacott: CTO
Honors degree in Information 
Systems with 12+ years of 
experience in IT and software 
products
Website
www.adagintech.com
adagin-technologies
Contact 
Fredrik Gideon Adriaanse: Founder 
and CEO
fg.adriaanse@adagintech.com
29
About 
Maltento is a biotechnology company focused on sustainable feed solutions by 
using Black Soldier Fly Larvae (BSFL). By upcycling food waste into nutrient-rich 
feed additives, Maltento supports environmental stewardship and encourages 
circular agriculture.
The Challenge 
Traditional feed sources not only contribute nearly half of agriculture’s 
greenhouse gas emissions but also involve high costs and supply chain risks—
particularly in regions where farmers cannot afford expensive feeds. These 
concerns highlight the need for alternatives that lower ecological impact while 
maintaining or improving animal performance.
The Solution 
Maltento uses BSFL to convert food waste into an easily digestible, eco-friendly 
feed additive known as Digest. In addition to reducing emissions and upcycling 
waste, Digest improves animal survivability and feed performance, making it an 
attractive option for aquaculture, pet food and early weaning livestock.
Traction 
Market Size: Global demand for insect-based products is expected to surpass 
500,000 tons by 2030. Maltento focuses on higher-value markets—like 
aquaculture, pet food, and specialized livestock feed—where functional 
additives may yield both higher returns and measurable performance 
improvements.
Revenue: Maltento has recorded 117% and 105% revenue growth from 2022 to 
2023 and 2023 to 2024 respectively, realizing revenues of US $3.05 million in 
2024.
Milestones: Since 2018, Maltento has scaled monthly production to more than 
120 tons of larvae and supplied over 300 tons of Digest in South Africa, 
preparing to enter the U.S. and European markets. Trials in aquaculture 
demonstrated up to a 15% improvement in feed conversion and stronger 
recovery from stress. In pet food trials, dogs showed better skin and coat 
quality, while livestock tests indicated healthier weight gain. These results 
reflect the broad potential of Digest for different animal species and feed 
applications.
Investment Opportunity 
Maltento’s next phase involves broadening market acceptance, expanding 
distribution, increasing production capacity and further refining regulatory 
compliance. Partnerships, including P4G with WWF, will help support additional 
validation trials and reinforce Maltento’s role in sustainable feed solutions. 
Maltento is seeking US $3 million in equity funding to increase production 
capacity and strengthen its sales reach into the US and European markets.
Established    Location
2018 South Africa
Sector            Employees
Climate smart   64
agriculture            
maltento
Contact 
Jaysen Golding
Jaysen.golding@maltento.com
Maltento
www.P4GPartnerships.org
Capital Raised
US $5.5 million
Leadership Team
Dean Smorenburg: Founder &CEO
Dean’s background spans
management consulting (Bain,
Monitor Deloitte) and finance,with
expertise in private equity, 
organizational design,and C-Suite 
strategy. At Maltento, he guides 
innovationand strategy to promote
sustainability in the food chain.
Jaysen Golding: COO
A seasoned CharteredAccountant, 
Jaysen has workedacross diverse 
industries locallyand abroad. He 
focuses on delivering solutions, 
navigatingcomplex transactions, 
anddriving performance. At
Maltento, he oversees operations 
and finance,ensuring efficiency and
financial stability.
Website
www.maltento.com
30
LocationEstablished
Vietnam2022
EmployeesSector
16Waste management
Capital Raised 
US $200,000 in equity
US $500,000 in grants 
Leadership Team 
Thanh Le: Founder and CEO
A climate entrepreneur with 15+ 
years of experience in product 
development and business growth.
Anh Duong: Co-founder 
15+ years of experience in venture 
capital and climate tech. Angel 
investor in Southeast Asia. 
Website 
www.netzeropallet.com
NetZeroPallet
Contact 
Thanh Le, CEO 
ceo@airxcarbon.com
AirX Carbon
www. P4GPartnerships.org
31
About
AirX Carbon is a biomaterial company pioneering carbon  negative materials 
through its flagship product  -  NetZero Pallet -  crafted from polymerized
agricultural wastes.
The Challenge
Traditional pallets are typically made of wood or plastic, which contribute to 
deforestation and higher carbon emissions during the manufacturing process 
respectively. Concurrently, Vietnam generates almost 100 million tons of 
agricultural waste annually.  Only about 50% of these crop by-products are
collected,  with an even smaller amount processed  for productive use.
The  Solution
AirX Carbon repurposes coconut, rice, coffee, bamboo  waste,  etc.  in  Vietnam 
to make the NetZero Pallet. The sturdy, sanitary and stackable pallets  can be 
used by a range of companies from food,  pharmaceutical  to manufacturing.
The pallets  have  a negative carbon footprint  and are  20% -  50% cheaper than
traditional wood and plastic pallets.
The startup’s target customer market includes:
￿Exporters dealing with one-way shipping.
￿ Environmentally conscious exporters sending products to Japan,  Singapore,
Australia, Europe and the United States.
￿Global companies.
Traction
Market size: The global serviceable addressable  market is around US $73 
billion  and AirX Carbon’s serviceable obtainable market is $3 billion.
Revenue: In 2023, AirX Carbon generated US $181,000 in revenue and 
expected to close 2024 with US $1 million  in revenue. It expects a year-over-
year growth rate of 500%  from 2023 to 2024. By 2035, AirX aims to generate 
US $400 million in annual revenue and create at least 2,000 direct jobs.
Milestones:  AirX has negotiated long-term commitments with 10  local 
suppliers  for a steady supply of raw materials. Additional milestones include:
x  Partnerships with industry leaders like Coca-Cola, Hyosung and Far Eastern 
x  Awards and endorsements worth US $500,000 from Temasek Foundation,
SK, US Dept. of State,  European governments and Australian governments
x  FDA and USDA approval for food safety and biodegradability
Investment Opportunity
  AirX Carbon is seeking to raise US $2 million in seed funding  either through 
equity or SAFE agreements  to:
￿Scale to an  annual production capacity of 4 million pallets with 2 factories
￿Invest in R&D to advance biomaterial innovations from agricultural waste
￿Expand human capital and business development
About 
Buyoplastic is dedicated to transforming plastic waste into sustainable solutions 
that benefit both business and the environment. By leveraging innovative 
recycling technologies, BUYO creates high-quality, eco-friendly materials that 
support a circular economy. 
The Challenge 
Plastic waste remains a global environmental crisis, with excessive production 
and improper disposal leading to severe pollution. Many industries still rely on 
virgin plastic, contributing to resource depletion and carbon emissions. 
Additionally, inefficient recycling systems and limited market adoption of 
recycled materials hinder progress toward a more sustainable future.
The Solution 
Unlike typical bioplastics made from corn or potatoes, BUYO’s solution utilizes 
discarded food waste from industries, such as brewery grains, converting it into 
a biomaterial with up to 50% biomass content. This approach cuts greenhouse 
gas emissions, prevents organic waste from entering landfills, and promotes 
circular economy principles. For every ton of finished product, BUYO can 
upcycle 0.5 tons of biowaste, reducing energy use and carbon emissions by 70% 
compared to conventional plastics.
Traction 
Market size: By 2026 the global market size for bioplastics will be US $11.6 
billion. BUYO’s primary target markets are North America and Europe which 
give the startup a serviceable obtainable market of US $128 million by 2026. 
A B2B business, BUYO targets corporate clients in high-quality and safety-critical 
industries like food packaging, medical and cosmetics. Primary clients include 
multinational corporations and SMEs that prioritize eco-friendly solutions.
Revenue: The company has generated US $110,000 USD from its inception to 
date. Revenue totaled US $70,000 in 2024 and is expected to grow to US
$500,000 in 2025. 
Milestones: BUYO has achieved the following milestones: 
x First company from Southeast Asia selected into the Global 100+ Accelerator 
program co-hosted by AB InBev, Coca Cola, Unilever, Colgate Palmolive and 
Danone
x Recipient of multiple international awards for its pioneering technology in 
revolutionizing plastic alternatives.
x Current supplier of a bio-based compostable keg cap for AB InBev, the first 
ever keg cap made from bio-waste in the world's beer industry
Investment 
The company has just completed its seed round fund raising and has raised a 
total of US $2.5 million equity investment to date. BUYO will use these funds for 
R&D and innovation, and to scale up the business.
Established             Location
2022                   Vietnam
  
Sector             Employees
Food Loss       12
And Waste               
Capital Raised 
US $2.5 million
Leadership Team 
Hanh Do: Co-Founder and CEO
20 years of experience in design, 
product development, 
manufacturing, and training, 
specializing in low-cost water and 
agricultural technologies. 
Thu Vuong: Co-Founder & CTO
Experienced in communication and 
business negotiations, driving 
strategic growth and partnerships.
Hoang Nguyen: COO
10 years experience in Production 
Management in Textile and Leather 
Industry. Bachelor’s and master’s 
degree in chemical engineering 
from Ho Chi Minh University of 
Technology. Participates in factory 
set-up and production, and supply 
chain management.
Website 
www.buyoplastic.com
Buyo-bioplastics
Contact 
Hanh Do
hanh.do@buyoplastic.com
BUYO
www.P4GPartnerships.org
32
Sub-Sector Focus
Zero Emissions 
Mobility
 
 
 
About 
MubOn is a startup dedicated to solving electrical infrastructure challenges 
for electric vehicle (EV) users. 
 
The Challenge  
The EV market in Colombia is experiencing significant growth, however, 
several challenges are hindering its full potential, particularly among urban 
users. Issues include a lack of charging infrastructure and insufficient 
manufacturing capacity from local producers. In major cities, many landlords 
prohibit tenants from installing chargers or impose higher fees due to 
difficulties in monitoring the energy consumed by residents' vehicles, further 
limiting access to EVs.  
 
The Solution  
MubOn aims to close the infrastructure and service gap for urban users in 
Colombia's EV market by:  
● Developing a SaaS Platform: A subscription service to streamline the 
monitoring, management, and fee collection for charging stations. 
● Product-as-a-Service: MubOn provides electric charging infrastructure 
while eliminating upfront costs for common areas and businesses. 
● Implementing a usage-based platform: Electric charging for residential 
units through shared stations paired with integrated payment software. 
 
Traction  
Market size: The global charging market is projected to reach US $1.567 
billion by 2025, expanding at 38.5% CAGR. In the Americas, the total 
addressable market is an estimated US $25 billion, with a serviceable 
available market of US $8 million in Latin America and a serviceable 
obtainable market of US $97 million. 
 
Revenue: Originally a spin-off from DeepSea Developments, which began in 
2022, MubOn has operated independently since June 2024. As of October 
2024, MubOn has generated over US $120,000 in revenues and expects to 
close its first year of operations with a total of US $160,000. 
 
Milestones: MubOn has achieved the following milestones:  
● IP owner and developer of their charger, and software platform. 
● In six months, the company has attracted over 1,200 users across 30 
charging points in major cities like Cali, Medellín, and Bogotá, 
facilitated over 1000 paid charging sessions, and delivered more than 
20,000kWh of power. 
 
Investment Opportunity  
The company is looking for a pre-seed round of US $500,000 in 2025 and 
plans to raise US $1.5 million in 2026 in equity or SAFE agreements. The 
investment will be split as follows: 40% for marketing and sales, 35% for 
product development, 10% for processes and operations, and 15% for assets 
and equipment.  
 
 
MubOn 
Established                    Location 
2024                           Colombia 
 
Sector                    Employees 
Zero emissions              2 
mobility          
 
Capital Raised  
US $150,000 in SAFE 
US $350,000 in Impact Fund 
 
Leadership Team  
Nelson Padilla: Founder and CEO 
10+ years of experience in mobile, 
web application development and 
IoT projects. 4+ years in sales. 
 
Nick Velasquez: Co-founder and CTO  
10+ years of experience in IoT 
products with a focus on rapid 
learning and iteration. Strong 
background in hardware design, 
embedded systems and rapid 
prototyping.  
 
Website  
www.mubon.co 
 
          
         MubOn  
 
Contact 
Nelson Padilla – CEO 
nelson@mubon.co 
 
 
 
 
 
  
www.P4GPartnerships.org 
34
ďŽƵƚ
ĂƐŝ'Ž͕ĂŶĞͲŵŽďŝůŝƚǇƐƚĂƌƚͲƵƉŚĞĂĚƋƵĂƌƚĞƌĞĚŝŶEĂŝƌŽďŝ͕ŝƐƌĞǀŽůƵƚŝŽŶŝǌŝŶŐ
ƚŚĞƉƵďůŝĐƚƌĂŶƐƉŽƌƚĂƚŝŽŶƐĞĐƚŽƌďǇƉƌŽǀŝĚŝŶŐďƵƐŽƉĞƌĂƚŽƌƐǁŝƚŚĂĐŽƐƚͲ
ĞĨĨĞĐƚŝǀĞ͕ĞůĞĐƚƌŝĐĂůƚĞƌŶĂƚŝǀĞƚŽĚŝĞƐĞůďƵƐĞƐ͘dŚĞƐƚĂƌƚƵƉŝƐďƌŝŶŐŝŶŐƚŽŐĞƚŚĞƌ
ĞǆƉĞƌƚƐŝŶĞůĞĐƚƌŝĐǀĞŚŝĐůĞƐ͕ƉƵďůŝĐƚƌĂŶƐƉŽƌƚ͕ƚŚĞƉŽǁĞƌƐĞĐƚŽƌ͕ĂƐƐĞƚĨŝŶĂŶĐĞ͕
ƐŽĨƚǁĂƌĞĂŶĚĚĂƚĂƐĐŝĞŶĐĞƚŽƐǇƐƚĞŵĂƚŝĐĂůůǇĞůĞĐƚƌŝĨǇƉƵďůŝĐƚƌĂŶƐƉŽƌƚŝŶ
ĨƌŝĐĂ͘
dŚĞŚĂůůĞŶŐĞ
ǇϮϬϮϱ͕ĨƌŝĐĂǁŝůůŚĂǀĞϭϬŵĞŐĂͲĐŝƚŝĞƐǁŝƚŚŽǀĞƌϭϬŵŝůůŝŽŶƌĞƐŝĚĞŶƚƐĞĂĐŚ͘
/ŶĨƌŝĐĂ͛ƐŐƌŽǁŝŶŐĐŝƚŝĞƐ͕ĚŝĞƐĞůďƵƐĞƐĂĐĐŽƵŶƚĨŽƌϰϬйŽĨĂůůƉĂƐƐĞŶŐĞƌƚƌŝƉƐ͘
ĞƉĞŶĚĞŶĐĞŽŶĚŝĞƐĞůͲƉŽǁĞƌĞĚƉƵďůŝĐƚƌĂŶƐƉŽƌƚǁŽƌƐĞŶƐĂŝƌƉŽůůƵƚŝŽŶ͕
ŝŵƉĂĐƚƐŐƌŽǁƚŚƚŚƌŽƵŐŚƌĞůŝĂŶĐĞŽŶĨƵĞůŝŵƉŽƌƚƐ͕ĂŶĚĂĐĐĞůĞƌĂƚĞƐŐůŽďĂů
ĐůŝŵĂƚĞĐŚĂŶŐĞ͘dŽĂĚĚƌĞƐƐƚŚĞŐƌŽǁŝŶŐĚĞŵĂŶĚĨŽƌƵƌďĂŶŵŽďŝůŝƚǇ͕ĨƌŝĐĂŶ
ĐŝƚŝĞƐƵƌŐĞŶƚůǇƌĞƋƵŝƌĞĂƐŚŝĨƚƚŽǁĂƌĚƐĂĨĨŽƌĚĂďůĞ͕ĐůĞĂŶ ĂŶĚ ůŽǁͲĐĂƌďŽŶ
ƉƵďůŝĐƚƌĂŶƐƉŽƌƚƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐ͘
dŚĞ^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶ
<ĞŶǇĂĂůƌĞĂĚǇŐĞŶĞƌĂƚĞƐŽǀĞƌϵϬйŽĨŝƚƐĞůĞĐƚƌŝĐŝƚǇĨƌŽŵƌĞŶĞǁĂďůĞĞŶĞƌŐǇ͘
ĂƐŝ'ŽůĞǀĞƌĂŐĞƐƚŚŝƐĐůĞĂŶĞŶĞƌŐǇƚŽƉŽǁĞƌŵŽĚĞƌŶ͕ĞůĞĐƚƌŝĐďƵƐĞƐ͘ĂƐŝ'Ž͛Ɛ
ŬĞǇŝŶŶŽǀĂƚŝŽŶŝƐƚŚĞWĂǇͲĂƐͲǇŽƵͲƌŝǀĞĨŝŶĂŶĐŝŶŐŵŽĚĞůĨŽƌĞůĞĐƚƌŝĐďƵƐĞƐ͕Ă
ŵŝůĞĂŐĞͲďĂƐĞĚůĞĂƐĞƚŚĂƚĞůŝŵŝŶĂƚĞƐŚŝŐŚĂƉǆĐŽƐƚƐ ĂƐĂďĂƌƌŝĞƌƚŽ
ĂĚŽƉƚŝŽŶ͘WĂǇͲĂƐͲǇŽƵͲƌŝǀĞĂůƐŽŝŶĐůƵĚĞƐ ƚŚĞĐŽƐƚƐŽĨĞͲďƵƐĐŚĂƌŐŝŶŐĂŶĚ
ƌĞŐƵůĂƌƐĞƌǀŝĐĞ͘
dƌĂĐƚŝŽŶ
DĂƌŬĞƚ^ŝǌĞ͗dŚĞƐĞƌǀŝĐĞĂďůĞĂĚĚƌĞƐƐĂďůĞŵĂƌŬĞƚŝƐh^ΨϭďŝůůŝŽŶĂŶĚĂƐŝ'Ž͛Ɛ
ƐĞƌǀŝĐĞĂďůĞŽďƚĂŝŶĂďůĞŵĂƌŬĞƚŝƐh^ΨϲϱϬ ŵŝůůŝŽŶ ďĞƚǁĞĞŶ<ĞŶǇĂĂŶĚ
ZǁĂŶĚĂ͘
ZĞǀĞŶƵĞ͗ĂƐŝ'ŽŐĞŶĞƌĂƚĞĚh^ΨϴϳϮ͕ϬϬϬ ŝŶƌĞǀĞŶƵĞŝŶϮϬϮϰĂŶĚĞǆƉĞĐƚƐƚŽ
ŐĞŶĞƌĂƚĞh^ Ψϰ͘ϱ ŵŝůůŝŽŶ ŝŶϮϬϮϱ͘
DŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗ĂƐŝ'ŽŚĂƐĂĐŚŝĞǀĞĚƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐŵŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗
x ĂƐŝ'ŽĐƵƌƌĞŶƚůǇŚĂƐĂ ĨůĞĞƚ ŽĨϱϱĞůĞĐƚƌŝĐ ďƵƐĞƐŝŶŽƉĞƌĂƚŝŽŶŝŶ^ƵďͲ
^ĂŚĂƌĂŶĨƌŝĐĂ ʹ ϲŝŶ<ŝŐĂůŝĂŶĚϰϵ ŝŶEĂŝƌŽďŝ ʹ ĂŶĚŽǀĞƌϴϬϬ
ƌĞƐĞƌǀĂƚŝŽŶƐĨƌŽŵďƵƐŽƉĞƌĂƚŽƌƐŝŶ<ĞŶǇĂĂŶĚZǁĂŶĚĂ͘
x dŚĞƐĞďƵƐĞƐŚĂǀĞĐŽǀĞƌĞĚŽǀĞƌϯ͘ϴ ŵŝůůŝŽŶŬŵ͕ĐĂƌƌŝĞĚŽǀĞƌϱ͘ϵ ŵŝůůŝŽŶ
ƉĂƐƐĞŶŐĞƌƐ͕ĂŶĚŵŝƚŝŐĂƚĞĚϭ͕ϳϬϬ ŵĞƚƌŝĐƚŽŶŶĞƐŽĨKϮ ĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐ͘
ĂƐŝ'ŽŝŶƚĞŶĚƐƚŽĚĞƉůŽǇŽǀĞƌϱ͕ϬϬϬĞͲďƵƐĞƐǁŝƚŚŝƚƐWĂǇͲĂƐͲǇŽƵͲƌŝǀĞ
ĨŝŶĂŶĐŝŶŐĂĐƌŽƐƐƐƵďͲ^ĂŚĂƌĂŶĨƌŝĐĂďǇϮϬϯϬ͘
/ŶǀĞƐƚŵĞŶƚKƉƉŽƌƚƵŶŝƚǇ
ĂƐŝ'Ž ƌĞƋƵŝƌĞƐh^ΨϯϯϬ ŵŝůůŝŽŶ ŝŶĞƋƵŝƚǇ͕ĚĞďƚĂŶĚŐƌĂŶƚƐŽǀĞƌƚŚĞŶĞǆƚϱ
ǇĞĂƌƐƚŽ͗
x ĞƉůŽǇϯ͕ϬϬϬ WĂǇͲĂƐͲǇŽƵͲƌŝǀĞͲƵƐĞƐŝŶĂƐƚĨƌŝĐĂďǇϮϬϯϬ͘
x ĞǀĞůŽƉĞǆƚĞŶƐŝǀĞĞͲďƵƐĐŚĂƌŐŝŶŐŝŶĨƌĂƐƚƌƵĐƚƵƌĞ͘
x ƵŝůĚĐŽŵƉůĞŵĞŶƚĂƌǇƉƵďůŝĐƚƌĂŶƐƉŽƌƚĂŶĚďƵƐĂƐƐĞƚŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ
ƚĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐǇƚŽĐĂƚĂůǇǌĞ ƚŚĞĂĚŽƉƚŝŽŶŽĨĞͲďƵƐĞƐŝŶĨƌŝĐĂ͘
ƐƚĂďůŝƐŚĞĚ>ŽĐĂƚŝŽŶ
ϮϬϮϭ <ĞŶǇĂ
^ĞĐƚŽƌ ŵƉůŽǇĞĞƐ
ĞƌŽĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐϭϭϰ
ŵŽďŝůŝƚǇ
ĂƉŝƚĂůZĂŝƐĞĚ
h^ΨϱϬ ŵŝůůŝŽŶ
>ĞĂĚĞƌƐŚŝƉdĞĂŵ
:ŝƚ ŚĂƚƚĂĐŚĂƌǇĂ͗K ĂŶĚŽͲĨŽƵŶĚĞƌ
ϭϮн ǇĞĂƌƐŽĨƚĞĐŚŶŝĐĂůĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞŝŶ
sƚĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐǇ͕ƐƉĞĐŝĂůŝǌŝŶŐŝŶ>ŝͲŝŽŶ
ďĂƚƚĞƌŝĞƐ
:ŽŶĂƚŚĂŶ'ƌĞĞŶ͗&K
ϭϱн ǇĞĂƌƐŽĨĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞŝŶůĞĂĚŝŶŐ
ŽƉĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐĂŶĚĨŝŶĂŶĐŝŶŐŽĨ
ƚĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐǇ ƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐŝŶ^ƵďͲ^ĂŚĂƌĂŶ
ĨƌŝĐĂ
tĞďƐŝƚĞ
ǁǁǁ͘ďĂƐŝͲŐŽ͘ĐŽŵ
ďĂƐŝŐŽ
ŽŶƚĂĐƚ
:ŽŶĂƚŚĂŶ'ƌĞĞŶ
ũŐΛďĂƐŝͲŐŽ͘ĐŽŵ
ĂƐŝ'Ž
ǁǁǁ͘Wϰ'WĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉƐ͘ŽƌŐ
35
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
About  
eBee is a pan-African e-mobility company founded in late 2021 in Kenya. 
The company currently sells and rents e-bikes and manages a fleet of last-
mile delivery riders. Through this model, eBee is creating green jobs, 
particularly for women and youth. 
 
The Challenge  
Urban transportation in Kenya is at a critical turning point, as congestion 
and pollution worsen due to the heavy reliance on diesel-powered vehicles. 
In Nairobi alone, 2.27 million trips per day are made on foot, while 55,000 
are by bicycle. Many people walk or cycle due to limited income and a lack 
of alternative transport options. However, pedestrians and cyclists face 
numerous challenges, including traffic accidents, pollution, congestion and a 
shortage of green spaces. 
 
The Solution  
eBee is transforming urban mobility by electrifying bicycles and leveraging 
innovative branding and community engagement strategies. By reshaping 
perceptions around cycling, eBee is making e-bikes more desirable and 
accessible to a broader audience. Additionally, eBee is accelerating the 
adoption of electric bicycles in Nairobi and Mombasa by offering consumer 
financing through its newly developed loan product and leveraging available 
credit guarantee schemes. 
 
Traction 
Market size: With an average selling price of US $850 per e-bike, eBee's 
potential market size is approximately US $94.4 million. The total 
addressable market in Kenya is approximately 740,000 potential e-bike 
users. The serviceable available market is about 370,000 riders, and the 
serviceable obtainable market is an estimated 111,000 riders. 
 
Revenue: In 2024, eBee realized total revenue of US $1,201,925. This was an 
83% growth from US $629,352 in 2023. With the current growth trajectory, 
revenue is projected to reach US $1,500,000 in 2026. 
 
Milestones: To date, eBee has distributed 1,124 e-bikes that have covered 
2,947,480 kilometers, created 381 jobs, and mitigated 412,000 kilograms of 
CO2. 
 
Investment Opportunity  
The startup seeks to raise US $5 million in Series A funding to enable 
• Rural delivery in country expansion – US $1.2 million 
• Research into affordable and rural adaptable products – US $1.5 million 
• Expansion into Tanzania and Ethiopia – US $2.3 million 
Established                 Location 
2021                          Kenya 
 
Sector                 Employees 
Zero emissions           36 
mobility 
 
Capital Raised  
US $653,000 
 
Leadership Team  
Maarten Fonteijn: Country Manager 
Maarten has a strong background in 
venture building, renewable energy, and 
circular economy solutions, he has 
spearheaded impact-driven businesses in 
Africa, Europe, and India. 
 
Chris Pleijsier: Commercial Director 
Chris brings extensive leadership 
experience in marketing and sales in 
mobility and emerging markets. 
 
Alice Ejiofor: Head of Finance 
Alice has a strong foundation in finance 
and leadership, having started her career 
at two “Big Four” audit firms before 
transitioning into the startup ecosystem. 
 
Website  
ebee.africa/ke/ 
 
 
          ebee-kenya 
 
Contact 
Maarten Fonteijn 
maarten@ebee.africa  
 
 
  
eBee Kenya 
www.P4GPartnerships.org
 
36
ďŽƵƚ
'ĞŵƉĂĐƐŝƐƚƌĂŶƐĨŽƌŵŝŶŐ/ŶĚŽŶĞƐŝĂ͛ƐŵĂƌŝƚŝŵĞŝŶĚƵƐƚƌǇďǇĞůĞĐƚƌŝĨǇŝŶŐ ďŽĂƚƐ
ƚŚƌŽƵŐŚĂŶŝŶƚĞŐƌĂƚĞĚƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƚŚĂƚƌĞĚƵĐĞƐ ĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐĂŶĚďŽŽƐƚƐ ŝŶĐŽŵĞƐ͘
dŚĞŚĂůůĞŶŐĞ
DŽƌĞƚŚĂŶϭŵŝůůŝŽŶ/ŶĚŽŶĞƐŝĂŶĨŝƐŚŝŶŐďŽĂƚƐƌƵŶŽŶĨŽƐƐŝůĨƵĞůƐĂŶĚ
ĐŽŶƚƌŝďƵƚĞ ƚŽĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂůĚĞŐƌĂĚĂƚŝŽŶ͘,ŝŐŚĨƵĞůĐŽƐƚƐƚƌĂƉŽƉĞƌĂƚŽƌƐĂƚ
ŽƌďĞůŽǁƚŚĞƉŽǀĞƌƚǇƚŚƌĞƐŚŽůĚ͘ǆŝƐƚŝŶŐƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐŽĨƚĞŶĨŽĐƵƐŽŶƚĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐǇ
ĂůŽŶĞ͕ŽǀĞƌůŽŽŬŝŶŐƚŚĞƌĞŐƵůĂƚŽƌǇ͕ƐŽĐŝĞƚĂůĂŶĚĞĐŽŶŽŵŝĐĨĂĐƚŽƌƐĂĨĨĞĐƚŝŶŐ
ƚŚĞƐĞĐƚŽƌ͕ǁŝƚŚŚŝŐŚĐŽƐƚƐ ĂŶĚůŝŵŝƚĞĚƌĂŶŐĞŽƌĂƵƚŽŶŽŵǇĂƚƐĞĂ͘
dŚĞ ^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶ
'ĞŵƉĂĐƐŽĨĨĞƌƐĂŶŝŶƚĞŐƌĂƚĞĚƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƚŚĂƚŝŶĐůƵĚĞƐƌĞƚƌŽĨŝƚƚŝŶŐĂŶĚͬŽƌ
ďƵŝůĚŝŶŐŶĞǁĨƵůůǇĞůĞĐƚƌŝĐďŽĂƚƐ ǁŝƚŚƉŚŽƚŽǀŽůƚĂŝĐƌŽŽĨƐĂŶĚŐĞŽͲůŽĐĂůŝǌĂƚŝŽŶ
ƐǇƐƚĞŵƐĨŽƌĞŶŚĂŶĐĞĚƐĂĨĞƚǇĂŶĚĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐƚƌĂĐŬŝŶŐ͘/ƚ ĂůƐŽŝŶƐƚĂůůƐ ĐŚĂƌŐŝŶŐ
ƐƚĂƚŝŽŶƐĂŶĚĨĂĐŝůŝƚĂƚĞƐ ĂĐĐĞƐƐƚŽ ĨŝŶĂŶĐŝŶŐŽƉƚŝŽŶƐĨŽƌ ďŽĂƚŽǁŶĞƌƐ͕ ŚĞůƉŝŶŐ
ƚŚĞŵƚŽ ŵĂŬĞƚŚĞƚƌĂŶƐŝƚŝŽŶŵŽƌĞƐĞĂŵůĞƐƐĂŶĚĂĨĨŽƌĚĂďůĞ͘
dƌĂĐƚŝŽŶ
DĂƌŬĞƚƐŝǌĞ͗'ůŽďĂůůǇƚŚĞƚŽƚĂůĂĚĚƌĞƐƐĂďůĞŵĂƌŬĞƚĨŽƌĞůĞĐƚƌŝĐďŽĂƚƐǁŝůůďĞ
h^ΨϭϬϬďŝůůŝŽŶďǇϮϬϯϱ͘&ŽĐƵƐŝŶŐŽŶ/ŶĚŽŶĞƐŝĂĂůŽŶĞ͕'ĞŵƉĂĐƐƐĞƌǀŝĐĞĂďůĞ
ŽďƚĂŝŶĂďůĞŵĂƌŬĞƚǁŝůůďĞh^ΨϭϬŵŝůůŝŽŶŝŶϮϬϮϱ ĂŶĚh^Ψϭ ďŝůůŝŽŶďǇϮϬϯϱ͘
ZĞǀĞŶƵĞ͗'ĞŵƉĂĐƐŝƐŝŶŝƚƐ ĞĂƌůǇƐƚĂŐĞĂŶĚƚŚĞƌĞǀĞŶƵĞĨŽƌďŽĂƚƐƐŽůĚǁĂƐ
ŐĞŶĞƌĂƚĞĚŝŶƉĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉǁŝƚŚ ĂŶ ĂƐƐŽĐŝĂƚĞĚĐŽŵƉĂŶǇ͕ƌĂŝƐŝŶŐ ĂŶŽǀĞƌĂůů
ƌĞǀĞŶƵĞ ŽĨh^ΨϵϬ͕ϬϬϬ͕ŽĨǁŚŝĐŚΨϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ;ůĂƌŐĞƉĂƌƚŽĨƚŚĞŐƌŽƐƐŵĂƌŐŝŶͿ
ǁĂƐŝŶǀŽŝĐĞĚďǇ'ĞŵƉĂĐƐ͘
DŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗'ĞŵƉĂĐƐŚĂƐĂĐŚŝĞǀĞĚƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐŵŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗
x WƌŽǀĞŶƚĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐǇŽŶĨŝƐŚŝŶŐ͕ǁĂƚĞƌƚĂǆŝĂŶĚƚŽƵƌŝƐƚďŽĂƚƐ ŵĂŬŝŶŐƚŚĞ
ƚĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐǇƌŝƐŬǀĞƌǇůŝŵŝƚĞĚ͘
x ĐŚŝĞǀĞĚŝŶƐƚŝƚƵƚŝŽŶĂůƐƵƉƉŽƌƚŝŶ /ŶĚŽŶĞƐŝĂ͕ŝŶĐůƵĚŝŶŐ ƚŚĞDŝŶŝƐƚƌǇŽĨ
ŶĞƌŐǇĂŶĚDŝŶĞƌĂůZĞƐŽƵƌĐĞƐ͕ƚŚĞDŝŶŝƐƚƌǇŽĨDĂƌŝƚŝŵĞĨĨĂŝƌƐĂŶĚ
&ŝƐŚĞƌŝĞƐ͕ ĂŶĚĂƉƉĞŶĂƐ͛ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌĂƚĞĨŽƌDĂƌŝƚŝŵĞĨĨĂŝƌƐĂŶĚ&ŝƐŚŝŶŐ͘
x ĞĐůĂƌĞĚĂŶĂƚŝŽŶĂůƐƚƌĂƚĞŐŝĐƉƌŽũĞĐƚďǇWĞƌƵƐĂŚĂĂŶ>ŝƐƚƌŝŬEĞŐĂƌĂ͕
/ŶĚŽŶĞƐŝĂΖƐƐƚĂƚĞͲŽǁŶĞĚĞůĞĐƚƌŝĐƵƚŝůŝƚǇĐŽŵƉĂŶǇ͘
x ŽůůĂďŽƌĂƚĞĚ ǁŝƚŚƚŚĞEĂƚŝŽŶĂůZĞƐĞĂƌĐŚĞŶƚƌĞ ;Z/EͿĂŶĚƵŶŝǀĞƌƐŝƚŝĞƐ
ƐƵĐŚĂƐWŽůŝƚĞŬŶŝŬĂƚĂŵĂŶĚ/d^^ƵƌĂďĂǇĂ͕ǁŚŝĐŚĂůƐŽƐĞƌǀĞĂƐĂƐŽƵƌĐĞĨŽƌ
ƚĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐǇ͕ƐĞƌǀŝĐĞƐĂŶĚĞŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐŐƌĂĚƵĂƚĞƐ͘
x ^ŝŐŶĞĚĂŐƌĞĞŵĞŶƚƐǁŝƚŚĂĨŝƐŚĞƌŵĞŶΖƐĐŽŽƉĞƌĂƚŝǀĞǁŝƚŚϭ͕ϬϬϬďŽĂƚƐĂŶĚĂ
ĨŝƐŚĞƌŵĞŶΖƐĂƐƐŽĐŝĂƚŝŽŶǁŝƚŚϲ͕ϬϬϬďŽĂƚƐ͘
x ƵƌƌĞŶƚŵĞŵďĞƌ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ/^;hEW͕:ĂŬĂƌƚĂͿůƵĞĐŽŶŽŵǇĂĐĐĞůĞƌĂƚŽƌ͘
/ŶǀĞƐƚŵĞŶƚKƉƉŽƌƚƵŶŝƚǇ
'ĞŵƉĂĐƐ ĂŝŵƐƚŽƌĂŝƐĞh^ΨϯŵŝůůŝŽŶŽǀĞƌƚŚĞŶĞǆƚϭϮŵŽŶƚŚƐŝŶ^&͕
ĞƋƵŝƚǇŽƌĐŽŶǀĞƌƚŝďůĞŶŽƚĞƐ͕ǁŝƚŚ ĂŶŝŶŝƚŝĂůƚƌĂŶĐŚĞŽĨĂƚůĞĂƐƚh^ΨϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ͘
dŚĞŝŶǀĞƐƚŵĞŶƚǁŝůůďĞƵƐĞĚƚŽƐĞƚƵƉĂŶĞǁ^ŝŶŐĂƉŽƌĞŚŽůĚŝŶŐ͕ ƐŚŽƌĞƵƉŝƚƐ
ĂƐƐĞŵďůǇůŝŶĞ͕ĐŚĂƌŐŝŶŐŝŶĨƌĂƐƚƌƵĐƚƵƌĞ ĂŶĚƐƉĂƌĞƉĂƌƚƐ͕ƌĞƚƌŽĨŝƚŬŝƚƐĂŶĚ
ďĂƚƚĞƌŝĞƐ͕ƌĞĐƌƵŝƚŵĞŶƚĂŶĚƉĂǇƌŽůů ĂŶĚĐŽŶƚŝŶŐĞŶĐǇĐĂƐŚĨůŽǁ͘
ƐƚĂďůŝƐŚĞĚ>ŽĐĂƚŝŽŶ
ϮϬϮϭ  /ŶĚŽŶĞƐŝĂ
^ĞĐƚŽƌ ŵƉůŽǇĞĞƐ
ĞƌŽĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐϲ ĨƵůůͲƚŝŵĞ
ŵŽďŝůŝƚǇ  ϯƉĂƌƚͲƚŝŵĞ
ĂƉŝƚĂůZĂŝƐĞĚ
h^ΨϭϬϴ͕ϬϬϬ
>ĞĂĚĞƌƐŚŝƉdĞĂŵ
ŽƌƌĂĚŽĐĐĂƌĚŝ͗ŽͲĨŽƵŶĚĞƌĂŶĚK
ϮϴнǇĞĂƌƐŽĨĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞĂŶĚ
ĞŶƚƌĞƉƌĞŶĞƵƌŝĂůĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞŝŶ
ƌĞŶĞǁĂďůĞƐ͕ƉƌŽƉĞƌƚǇĚĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ͕
ĐŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶƉƌŽũĞĐƚĂŶĚĐŽƐƚ
ŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ
ŶƌŝĐŽĂƌůŝŶ͗ŽͲĨŽƵŶĚĞƌĂŶĚdK
ϰϱǇĞĂƌƐŽĨŐůŽďĂůĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞ͕ŝŶĐůƵĚŝŶŐ
ϮϬǇĞĂƌƐĂƐĂƚĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐŝƐƚĂƚ ,ĞǁůĞƚƚͲ
WĂĐŬĂƌĚ͕ ĂŶĚŝŶƌĞŶĞǁĂďůĞƐ͕ƉŽǁĞƌ
ŐĞŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ͕ĞůĞĐƚƌŝĐŵŽďŝůŝƚǇĂŶĚ
ƚĞůĞĐŽŵƐ͕ĂŶĚĞůĞĐƚƌŽŶŝĐƐ ĂŶĚ/d͘
tĞďƐŝƚĞ
ǁǁǁ͘ŐĞŵƉĂĐƐ͘ĐŽŵ
'ĞŵƉĂĐƐ
ŽŶƚĂĐƚ
ŽƌƌĂĚŽĐĐĂƌĚŝ
ĐĂΛŐĞŵƉĂĐƐ͘ĐŽŵ
'ĞŵƉĂĐƐ
ǁǁǁ͘Wϰ'WĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉƐ͘ŽƌŐ

37
ďŽƵƚ
ŝŵŝƉƌŽǀŝĚĞƐ ƐŝŵƉůĞ͕ƚƵƌŶͲŬĞǇ͕ĞůĞĐƚƌŝĐĐŚĂƌŐŝŶŐƐǇƐƚĞŵƐĂŶĚƐĞƌǀŝĐĞƐƚŽ
ĨůĞĞƚƐ͘dŚĞŝƌ ƐĞƌǀŝĐĞŝŶĐůƵĚĞƐ ĞůĞĐƚƌŝĐĐŚĂƌŐŝŶŐŝŶĨƌĂƐƚƌƵĐƚƵƌĞ;ŝ͘Ğ͘ĐŚĂƌŐĞƌƐͿ ĂŶĚ
ǀĂůƵĞͲĂĚĚĞĚĞŶĞƌŐǇ͕ĐĂƌďŽŶĂŶĚƉĂǇŵĞŶƚƐŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚƐŽĨƚǁĂƌĞ͘
dŚĞŚĂůůĞŶŐĞ
&ůĞĞƚŽƉĞƌĂƚŽƌƐ͕ƉĂƌƚŝĐƵůĂƌůǇƚŚŽƐĞŝŶǀŽůǀĞĚŝŶĚĞůŝǀĞƌǇ͕ůĂƐƚͲŵŝůĞůŽŐŝƐƚŝĐƐĂŶĚ
ƚĞĐŚŶŝĐĂůƐĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ͕ĨĂĐĞŚŝŐŚŽƉĞƌĂƚŝŽŶĂůĐŽƐƚƐ ĚƵĞƚŽƚŚĞŝƌƌĞůŝĂŶĐĞŽŶŝŶƚĞƌŶĂů
ĐŽŵďƵƐƚŝŽŶĞŶŐŝŶĞǀĞŚŝĐůĞƐ͘dŚĞŝƌĐŚĂůůĞŶŐĞƐĂƌĞĨƵƌƚŚĞƌĐŽŵƉůŝĐĂƚĞĚďǇ
ĨƵƚƵƌĞƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇƉƌĞƐƐƵƌĞƐ͕ŝŶĐůƵĚŝŶŐĐĂƌďŽŶƚĂǆĞƐĂŶĚŵŝƐƐĞĚ
ŽƉƉŽƌƚƵŶŝƚŝĞƐĨŽƌĐĂƌďŽŶĐƌĞĚŝƚƐ͘tŚŝůĞƐŽŵĞĂƚƚĞŵƉƚƚŽĂĚĚƌĞƐƐƚŚĞƐĞŝƐƐƵĞƐ
ǁŝƚŚŝŶĞĨĨŝĐŝĞŶƚĨƵĞůƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐŽƌůŝŵŝƚĞĚĞůĞĐƚƌŝĐĨůĞĞƚĞǆƉĞƌŝŵĞŶƚƐ͕ƚŚĞǇ
ƐƚƌƵŐŐůĞǁŝƚŚƐĞůĞĐƚŝŶŐĞůĞĐƚƌŝĐǀĞŚŝĐůĞƐ͕ŵĂŶĂŐŝŶŐĐŚĂƌŐŝŶŐŝŶĨƌĂƐƚƌƵĐƚƵƌĞĂŶĚ
ŽƉƚŝŵŝǌŝŶŐĞŶĞƌŐǇƵƐĂŐĞ͘
dŚĞ ^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶ
ŝŵŝŚĂƌŐĞŽĨĨĞƌƐĂĐŽŵƉƌĞŚĞŶƐŝǀĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶĨŽƌĨůĞĞƚĞůĞĐƚƌŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶďƵŶĚůĞĚ
ǁŝƚŚŽƚŚĞƌƐĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ͕ŝŶĐůƵĚŝŶŐ ĐŚĂƌŐŝŶŐƐǇƐƚĞŵƐ͕ŝŶƐƚĂůůĂƚŝŽŶ͕ƐŵĂƌƚĞŶĞƌŐǇ
ŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ͕ĐĂƌďŽŶƚƌĂĐŬŝŶŐĂŶĚƉĂǇŵĞŶƚƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐ͘dŚĞƉƌŝĐŝŶŐŵŽĚĞů
ŽĨĨĞƌƐĨůĞǆŝďŝůŝƚǇ͕ŝŶĐůƵĚŝŶŐƉƵƌĐŚĂƐĞ͕ůĞĂƐĞŽƉƚŝŽŶƐ͕ĂŶĚŚĂƌŐŝŶŐͲĂƐͲĂͲ^ĞƌǀŝĐĞ
;ĂĂ^ͿƉůĂŶƐ͘
dƌĂĐƚŝŽŶ
DĂƌŬĞƚ^ŝǌĞ͗ŝŵŝŚĂƌŐĞΖƐƉŽƚĞŶƚŝĂůŵĂƌŬĞƚŝŶ^ŽƵƚŚĨƌŝĐĂĐŽŶƐŝƐƚƐŽĨ
ϮϳϬ͕ϬϬϬǀĞŚŝĐůĞƐĂĐƌŽƐƐĚĞůŝǀĞƌǇ͕ůĂƐƚͲŵŝůĞůŽŐŝƐƚŝĐƐ͕ĂŶĚƚĞĐŚŶŝĐĂůƐĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ
ĨůĞĞƚƐ͕ƌĞƋƵŝƌŝŶŐĂƉƉƌŽǆŝŵĂƚĞůǇϭϬϰ͕ϬϱϬĐŚĂƌŐĞƌƐ͕ǁŝƚŚ Ă ƉƌŽũĞĐƚĞĚƵƉĨƌŽŶƚ
ƌĞǀĞŶƵĞŽĨ h^ ΨϮϭ͘ϳϲŵŝůůŝŽŶĂŶĚĂŶĂŶŶƵĂůƌĞĐƵƌƌŝŶŐƌĞǀĞŶƵĞŽĨh^ΨϳŵŝůůŝŽŶ
ĨƌŽŵĂĂ^͘
ZĞǀĞŶƵĞ͗ŝŵŝŚĂƌŐĞĐƵƌƌĞŶƚůǇŽƉĞƌĂƚĞƐŽŶĂϰϲ͘ϳйŐƌŽƐƐŵĂƌŐŝŶǁŝƚŚĂ
ďƌĞĂŬͲĞǀĞŶ ƚĂƌŐĞƚĨŽƌ ϮϬϮϳ͘^ŝŶĐĞŝŶĐĞƉƚŝŽŶ͕ŝƚŚĂƐŐĞŶĞƌĂƚĞĚh^ΨϮϳ͕ϲϯϱ ŝŶ
ƌĞǀĞŶƵĞ͘ ŝŵŝŚĂƌŐĞŝƐƚĂƌŐĞƚŝŶŐĂƌĞǀĞŶƵĞŐĞŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶŽĨh^Ψϲ͘ϳŵŝůůŝŽŶďǇ
ϮϬϮϵǁŝƚŚĂĂ^ĂŶĚĐŚĂƌŐĞƌƐĂůĞƐĞĂĐŚĐŽŶƚƌŝďƵƚŝŶŐϯϵ͘ϯй͘dŚĞƐƚĂƌƚƵƉŝƐ
ĞǆƉĞĐƚŝŶŐĂϰϵ͘ϯйƌĞƚƵƌŶŽŶĞƋƵŝƚǇĂŶĚ ĂϮϳ͘ϯйƌĞƚƵƌŶŽŶĂƐƐĞƚƐ͘
DŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗ ŝŵŝŚĂƌŐĞŚĂƐĂĐŚŝĞǀĞĚƐĞǀĞƌĂůŵŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗
x ŽŶƚƌĂĐƚĞĚĂŶĚŽŶďŽĂƌĚĞĚŝƚƐ ŝŶŝƚŝĂůĐŽŵŵĞƌĐŝĂůĐƵƐƚŽŵĞƌƐ ǁŚŽ ǁŝůůďĞĂďůĞ
ƚŽƐĐĂůĞǁŝƚŚƚŚĞĐŽŵƉĂŶǇŝŶƚŚĞůŽŶŐƚĞƌŵ͘
x ĞǀĞůŽƉĞĚĂŶĚůĂƵŶĐŚĞĚŝƚƐƉƌŽƉƌŝĞƚĂƌǇĐŚĂƌŐŝŶŐƐƚĂƚŝŽŶƐĂŶĚŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ
ƐŽĨƚǁĂƌĞƐǇƐƚĞŵ͘
/ŶǀĞƐƚŵĞŶƚKƉƉŽƌƚƵŶŝƚǇ
ŝŵŝŚĂƌŐĞŝƐƌĂŝƐŝŶŐh^ΨϳϬϬ͕ϬϬϬŝŶĞƋƵŝƚǇ ĨƵŶĚŝŶŐĨŽƌŽƉĞƌĂƚŝŽŶĂůĞǆƉĂŶƐŝŽŶ
ĂŶĚƉƌŽĚƵĐƚĚĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ͘
ƐƚĂďůŝƐŚĞĚ >ŽĐĂƚŝŽŶ
ϮϬϮϮ  ^ŽƵƚŚĨƌŝĐĂ
^ĞĐƚŽƌ  ŵƉůŽǇĞĞƐ
ĞƌŽĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐ ϳ
ŵŽďŝůŝƚǇ
ĂƉŝƚĂůZĂŝƐĞĚ
h^ΨϯϯϬ͕ϬϬϬ
>ĞĂĚĞƌƐŚŝƉdĞĂŵ
DŝĐŚĂĞůDĂaƐ͗&ŽƵŶĚĞƌĂŶĚK
ϴ ǇĞĂƌƐ ŽĨĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞŝŶƉƌŽĚƵĐƚĂŶĚ
ƉƌŽũĞĐƚŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚĨŽƌ/od
ƉƌŽũĞĐƚƐ͕ŵĂŶĂŐŝŶŐůĂƌŐĞĚĞƐŝŐŶĂŶĚ
ĞŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐƚĞĂŵƐ͕ĂŶĚůĂƵŶĐŚŝŶŐ
ƉƌŽĚƵĐƚƐŝŶŶĞǁŵĂƌŬĞƚƐ͘ ĂĐŚĞůŽƌ͛Ɛ
ĚĞŐƌĞĞ ŝŶŵĞĐŚĂƚƌŽŶŝĐĞŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐ͕
ŵĂƐƚĞƌ͛ƐĚĞŐƌĞĞ ŝŶĞůĞĐƚƌŽŶŝĐ
ĞŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐ͕ ĂŶĚĂWDW ĐĞƌƚŝĨŝĐĂƚĞ͘
^ƚĞĨĂŶEĞů͗ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌ&ŝŶĂŶĐĞΘ
KƉĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐ
ϴ ǇĞĂƌƐ ŽĨ ĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞĨŽĐƵƐĞĚŽŶ
ĂƵƚŽŵĂƚŝŽŶ͕ďƵƐŝŶĞƐƐƐƚƌĂƚĞŐǇ ĂŶĚ
ŽǀĞƌƐĞĞŝŶŐůĂƌŐĞͲƐĐĂůĞƚĞĐŚƉƌŽũĞĐƚƐ͕
ŝŶĐůƵĚŝŶŐƌŽůůŽƵƚŽĨ ůĂƌŐĞͲƐĐĂůĞ
ŝŶĚƵƐƚƌŝĂůĂƵƚŽŵĂƚŝŽŶƉƌŽũĞĐƚƐ͘
ĂĐŚĞůŽƌ͛Ɛ ĚĞŐƌĞĞ ŝŶŵĞĐŚĂƚƌŽŶŝĐ
ĞŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐ͕D͕ ĂŶĚWDW
ĐĞƌƚŝĨŝĐĂƚĞ͘
tĞďƐŝƚĞ
ǁǁǁ͘ǌŝŵŝĐŚĂƌŐĞ͘ĐŽŵ
ŝŵŝĐŚĂƌŐĞ
ŽŶƚĂĐƚ
DŝĐŚĂĞůDĂĂƐ
ŵŝĐŚĂĞůΛǌŝŵŝĐŚĂƌŐĞ͘ĐŽŵ
ŝŵŝŚĂƌŐĞ
ǁǁǁ͘Wϰ'WĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉƐ͘ŽƌŐ
38
ďŽƵƚ
^dZKKDŝƐĨƌŝĐĂ͛ƐůĞĂĚŝŶŐĚĞƐŝŐŶĞƌĂŶĚŵĂŶƵĨĂĐƚƵƌĞƌŽĨĐĂƌŐŽĞͲďŝŬĞƐ͘
ZĞĐŽŐŶŝǌĞĚĨŽƌŝƚƐĂĚǀĂŶĐĞĚŵĂŶƵĨĂĐƚƵƌŝŶŐ͕^dZKKDƌĞĐĞŝǀĞĚƐƵƉƉŽƌƚĨƌŽŵ
ƚŚĞ^ŽƵƚŚĨƌŝĐĂŶŐŽǀĞƌŶŵĞŶƚΖƐĞƌŽƐƉĂĐĞ/ŶĚƵƐƚƌǇ^ƵƉƉŽƌƚ/ŶŝƚŝĂƚŝǀĞ;/^/Ϳ͘
dŚĞĐŽŵƉĂŶǇĂůƐŽƐŝŐŶĞĚĂŶDŽhǁŝƚŚ:ĂƚĐŽ ĨƌŽŵ:ĂƉĂŶ͕ĂEŝƐƐĂŶƐƵďƐŝĚŝĂƌǇ͕
ƚŽĐŽͲĚĞǀĞůŽƉĂŶĚƚĞƐƚĐĂƌŐŽĞͲďŝŬĞƚĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐǇƵƐŝŶŐĂƵƚŽŵŽƚŝǀĞĞǆƉĞƌƚŝƐĞ͘
dŚĞŚĂůůĞŶŐĞ
/ŶĨŽƌŵĂůƐĞƚƚůĞŵĞŶƚƐŝŶ^ŽƵƚŚĨƌŝĐĂĂŶĚƚŚĞƌĞƐƚŽĨĨƌŝĐĂĂƌĞƵŶĚĞƌƐĞƌǀĞĚ
ǁŝƚŚůŽŐŝƐƚŝĐĂůƐĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ͘/ƚůĂĐŬƐĞĨĨŝĐŝĞŶƚ͕ĂĨĨŽƌĚĂďůĞĂŶĚŐƌĞĞŶĚĞůŝǀĞƌǇ
ƐĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ͘
ĨƌŝĐĂ͛ƐƉŽƉƵůĂƚŝŽŶŝƐƉƌŽũĞĐƚĞĚƚŽƌĞĂĐŚϮϱйŽĨƚŚĞŐůŽďĂůƚŽƚĂůďǇϮϬϱϬ͕ǁŝƚŚ
ĨƌŝĐĂ͛ƐĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐĚŽƵďůŝŶŐďǇƚŚĞŶ͘ĂƌŐŽĞͲďŝŬĞƐƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĂƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďůĞ͕ũŽďͲ
ĐƌĞĂƚŝŶŐƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶͶƉĂƌƚŝĐƵůĂƌůǇĞŵƉŽǁĞƌŝŶŐǇŽƵƚŚĂŶĚǁŽŵĞŶ͘tŝƚŚǇŽƵƚŚ
ƵŶĞŵƉůŽǇŵĞŶƚĞǆĐĞĞĚŝŶŐϱϬйŝŶ^ŽƵƚŚĨƌŝĐĂĂŶĚŵĂŶǇŽƚŚĞƌĨƌŝĐĂŶ
ŶĂƚŝŽŶƐ͕ƚŚĞŶĞĞĚĨŽƌŝŶŶŽǀĂƚŝǀĞĞŵƉůŽǇŵĞŶƚŵŽĚĞůƐŝƐƵƌŐĞŶƚ͘ĂƌůǇ
ǁŽƌŬĨŽƌĐĞĞŶƚƌǇďŽŽƐƚƐůŽŶŐͲƚĞƌŵĐĂƌĞĞƌƉƌŽƐƉĞĐƚƐĂŶĚŝƐǀŝƚĂůƚŽƚŚĞƐƚƌĞŶŐƚŚ
ŽĨĚĞŵŽĐƌĂƚŝĐƐŽĐŝĞƚŝĞƐ͘
dŚĞ^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶ
ĂƌŐŽĞͲďŝŬĞƐŽĨĨĞƌĂŐƌĞĞŶ͕ĂĨĨŽƌĚĂďůĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶĨŽƌĚĞůŝǀĞƌǇŝŶ^ŽƵƚŚĨƌŝĐĂΖƐ
ĂŶĚƚŚĞƌĞƐƚŽĨĨƌŝĐĂ͛Ɛ ƵŶĚĞƌƐĞƌǀĞĚŝŶĨŽƌŵĂůƐĞƚƚůĞŵĞŶƚƐ͘EŽůŝĐĞŶƐĞŝƐ
ŶĞĞĚĞĚ͕ŵĂŬŝŶŐŝƚĞĂƐǇƚŽƚƌĂŝŶĂŶĚĞŵƉůŽǇǇŽƵƚŚĂŶĚǁŽŵĞŶ͘
^dZKKDŝƐĂĐŽƐƚͲĞĨĨĞĐƚŝǀĞ ŵĂŶƵĨĂĐƚƵƌĞƌ ǁŝƚŚŵŽƌĞƚŚĂŶϴϬйŽĨǀĞŚŝĐůĞǀĂůƵĞ
ŵĂŶƵĨĂĐƚƵƌĞĚŝŶͲŚŽƵƐĞ͘ ^dZKKDŽǁŶƐĂůůŝŶƚĞůůĞĐƚƵĂůƉƌŽƉĞƌƚǇ͘^dZKKD͛Ɛ
ĐĂƌŐŽĞͲďŝŬĞƐĐŚŽŽů ƚƌĂŝŶƌŝĚĞƌƐ ǁŚŽŝŶƚƵƌŶƌĞŶƚ ĐĂƌŐŽĞͲďŝŬĞƐĂŶĚƵƐĞ
^dZKKD͛ƐĞĐŽƐǇƐƚĞŵƚŽŚĞůƉŐĞŶĞƌĂƚĞĚĞůŝǀĞƌǇďƵƐŝŶĞƐƐ͘
dƌĂĐƚŝŽŶ
DĂƌŬĞƚƐŝǌĞ͗ĂƌŐŽĞͲďŝŬĞƐĂƌĞŝŶĐƌĞĂƐŝŶŐŝŶƉŽƉƵůĂƌŝƚǇĂŶĚ^dZKKD͛ƐůŽĐĂů
ƐĞƌǀŝĐĞĂďůĞŽďƚĂŝŶĂďůĞŵĂƌŬĞƚďǇϮϬϮϵŝƐ ϭϲ͕ϮϬϬĐĂƌŐŽĞͲďŝŬĞƐ͘
ZĞǀĞŶƵĞ͗^dZKKDŐĞŶĞƌĂƚĞĚ h^ ΨϭϬϬ͕ϬϬϬ ŝŶƌĞǀĞŶƵĞďǇKĐƚŽďĞƌ ϮϬϮϰ ĂŶĚ
ĞǆƉĞĐƚƐƚŽŐƌŽǁ ƐŝŐŶŝĨŝĐĂŶƚůǇĂƐŝƚƐƚĂƌƚƐƚŽƌŽůůŽƵƚ ŝƚƐůŽŐŝƐƚŝĐĂůŚƵďƐ͘Ǉ ƚŚĞ
ĞŶĚŽĨϮϬϮϲ͕^dZKKDĂŝŵƐƚŽƌŽůůŽƵƚ ϱϬĐĂƌŐŽĞͲďŝŬĞůŽŐŝƐƚŝĐĂů ŚƵďƐǁŝƚŚ
ϭ͕ϬϬϬǀĞŚŝĐůĞƐ͕ĞŵƉůŽǇŝŶŐŵŽƌĞƚŚĂŶ ϮϬϬϬǇŽƵƚŚĂŶĚǁŽŵĞŶƚŚƌŽƵŐŚĂƐŚŝĨƚ
ƌĞŶƚĂůƐǇƐƚĞŵĂŶĚĂĐŚŝĞǀŝŶŐƌĞǀĞŶƵĞƐŝŶǇĞĂƌϯŽĨŵŽƌĞƚŚĂŶ Ψϯ ŵŝůůŝŽŶ
ĂŶŶƵĂůůǇ ƚŚƌŽƵŐŚŝƚƐƌĞŶƚĂůŵŽĚĞů͘
DŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗^dZKKDŚĂƐĂĐŚŝĞǀĞĚƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐŵŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗
x ϴϬŽƉĞƌĂƚŝŽŶĂůĞͲďŝŬĞƐǁŝƚŚĚŝĨĨĞƌĞŶƚĐůĂƐƐĞƐŽĨĐĂƌŐŽĞͲďŝŬĞ ŵŽĚĞůƐ
ĂǀĂŝůĂďůĞƚŽĐŽŶƐƵŵĞƌƐ
x >ŽŶŐƚĞƌŵƚĞƐƚŝŶŐĐŽŵƉůĞƚĞĚǁŝƚŚŵŽƌĞƚŚĂŶϭϬϬ͕ϬϬϬŬŵƐŽĨĚĞůŝǀĞƌǇƚĞƐƚŝŶŐ
x ϯ͘ϴƚŽŶƐŽĨĐĂƌďŽŶĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐŽĨĨƐĞƚ
/ŶǀĞƐƚŵĞŶƚKƉƉŽƌƚƵŶŝƚǇ
^dZKKDƐĞĞŬƐh^ Ψϭ͘ϭ ŵŝůůŝŽŶŝŶĨƵŶĚŝŶŐƚŚƌŽƵŐŚŐƌĂŶƚƐ͕ůŽĂŶƐ͕ĐŽŶǀĞƌƚŝďůĞ
ůŽĂŶƐ ŽƌĞƋƵŝƚǇ ƚŽƌŽůůŽƵƚůŽŐŝƐƚŝĐĂůŚƵďƐŽĨĐĂƌŐŽĞͲďŝŬĞƐ͘
ƐƚĂďůŝƐŚĞĚ>ŽĐĂƚŝŽŶ
ϮϬϭϲ ^ŽƵƚŚĨƌŝĐĂ
^ĞĐƚŽƌ ŵƉůŽǇĞĞƐ
ĞƌŽĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐϭϬ
ŵŽďŝůŝƚǇ
ĂƉŝƚĂůZĂŝƐĞĚ
h^ΨϬ͘ϲϳ ŵŝůůŝŽŶ
>ĞĂĚĞƌƐŚŝƉdĞĂŵ
ŽƵǁĞƌǀĂŶEŝĞŬĞƌŬ͗KĂŶĚĐŽͲ
ĨŽƵŶĚĞƌ
ϭϮн ǇĞĂƌƐ ŽĨ ĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞŝŶďŝĐǇĐůĞ
ĂŶĚĞͲďŝŬĞĚĞƐŝŐŶ͘,ĞŚŽůĚƐĂŶ
,ŽŶŽƌƐĂŶĚŵĂƐƚĞƌ͛ƐĚĞŐƌĞĞŝŶ
ŝŶĚƵƐƚƌŝĂůĞŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐ͘
ĂƌůŝĞŶǀĂŶEŝĞŬĞƌŬ͗ &KĂŶĚ ĐŽͲ
ĨŽƵŶĚĞƌ
ǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞŝŶďƵƐŝŶĞƐƐƐƚƌĂƚĞŐǇĂŶĚ
ĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůĂĚŵŝŶŝƐƚƌĂƚŝŽŶ͘^ŚĞŚŽůĚƐĂ
ĚŝƉůŽŵĂŝŶĂĐĐŽƵŶƚŝŶŐ͕ĂĚĞŐƌĞĞĂŶĚ
,ŽŶŽƌƐĚĞŐƌĞĞŝŶƐƉŽƌƚƐƐĐŝĞŶĐĞ͘
<ĂƌĞŶǀŽŶtĞŝůůŝŐŚ͗ƵƐŝŶĞƐƐ
ĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚŽŶƐƵůƚĂŶƚ
ǆƚĞŶƐŝǀĞĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞŝŶůĂƐƚͲŵŝůĞ
ůŽŐŝƐƚŝĐƐ͘^ŚĞ ǁŽƌŬĞĚĨŽƌƚŚĞůĂƌŐĞƐƚ
ŽŶůŝŶĞƌĞƚĂŝůĞƌƐ dĂŬĞͲͲ>ŽƚĂŶĚ
ŚĞĐŬĞƌƐ^ŝǆƚǇϲϬ͘^ŚĞŚŽůĚƐĂŶD͘
DĂƌƚŚŝŶƵƐ,ĂƌŵƐĞ͗dĞĐŚŶŝĐĂů
DĂŶĂŐĞƌ
,ĞŝƐĂƋƵĂůŝĨŝĞĚĂƵƚŽŵŽƚŝǀĞďŽĚǇ
ƌĞƉĂŝƌĞƌĂŶĚǁĞůĚĞƌ͘,ĞŚĂƐϮϬǇĞĂƌƐ
ŽĨĞǆƚĞŶƐŝǀĞĂƵƚŽŵŽƚŝǀĞĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞ͘
tĞďƐŝƚĞ
ǁǁǁ͘ƐƚƌŽŽŵ͘ĐŽ͘ǌĂ
ƐƚƌŽŽŵͲĐĂƌŐŽͲďŝŬĞƐ
ŽŶƚĂĐƚhƐ
ŽƵǁĞƌǀĂŶEŝĞŬĞƌŬ͕ K
ŝŶĨŽΛƐƚƌŽŽŵ͘ĐŽ͘ǌĂ
^dZKKD
ǁǁǁ͘Wϰ'WĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉƐ͘ŽƌŐ
 
39
ǁǁǁ͘Wϰ'WĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉƐ͘ŽƌŐ
ďŽƵƚ
DŽďŝƵƐŶĞƌŐǇ ŝƐĂƉƌŽǀŝĚĞƌŽĨĞĨĨŝĐŝĞŶƚ͕ŚŝŐŚͲƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞĞŶĞƌŐǇƐƚŽƌĂŐĞ
ƐǇƐƚĞŵƐĨŽƌĞůĞĐƚƌŝĐǀĞŚŝĐůĞƐĂŶĚƌĞŶĞǁĂďůĞĞŶĞƌŐǇĂƉƉůŝĐĂƚŝŽŶƐ͘ǇĨŽĐƵƐŝŶŐŽŶ
ƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇ͕ŝŶŶŽǀĂƚŝŽŶ͕ĂŶĚƌĞůŝĂďŝůŝƚǇ͕ƚŚĞĐŽŵƉĂŶǇĞŵƉŽǁĞƌƐŝŶĚƵƐƚƌŝĞƐƚŽ
ƌĞĚƵĐĞĐĂƌďŽŶĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐĂŶĚƉƵƐŚƚŽǁĂƌĚƐĂƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďůĞ ĨƵƚƵƌĞ͘
dŚĞŚĂůůĞŶŐĞ
dŚĞĐŽůĚƐƚŽƌĂŐĞ ƚƌĂŶƐƉŽƌƚĂƚŝŽŶŝŶĚƵƐƚƌǇŚĞĂǀŝůǇƌĞůŝĞƐŽŶĨŽƐƐŝůĨƵĞůƐ͕
ĐŽŶƚƌŝďƵƚŝŶŐƚŽϭϱйŽĨŐůŽďĂůKЇĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐ͘tŝƚŚϵϱйŽĨƚŚĞƐĞĐƚŽƌƵƐŝŶŐ
ĚŝĞƐĞůͲƉŽǁĞƌĞĚƌĞĨƌŝŐĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƵŶŝƚƐ͕ƚŚĞŝŶĚƵƐƚƌǇĨĂĐĞƐĐŚĂůůĞŶŐĞƐŝŶ
ĚĞĐĂƌďŽŶŝǌĂƚŝŽŶ͘ŝĞƐĞůƌĞĨƌŝŐĞƌĂƚŝŽŶĞŵŝƚƐϭϱʹϰϬƚŽŶƐŽĨKЇƉĞƌǇĞĂƌƉĞƌ
ǀĞŚŝĐůĞĂŶĚĐŽŶƐƵŵĞƐƵƉƚŽϭϱ͕ϬϬϬůŝƚĞƌƐŽĨĚŝĞƐĞůĂŶŶƵĂůůǇ͕ŵĂŬŝŶŐŝƚďŽƚŚ
ĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂůůǇŚĂƌŵĨƵůĂŶĚĐŽƐƚůǇ͘ĚĚŝƚŝŽŶĂůůǇ͕ŝŶĐƌĞĂƐŝŶŐƌĞŐƵůĂƚŝŽŶƐŽŶ
ƵƌďĂŶĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐĂŶĚŶŽŝƐĞƉŽůůƵƚŝŽŶ͕ĂůŽŶŐǁŝƚŚƉƌĞƐƐƵƌĞĨƌŽŵĨŽŽĚƌĞƚĂŝůĞƌƐ͕
ĂƌĞĚƌŝǀŝŶŐƚŚĞĚĞŵĂŶĚĨŽƌŐƌĞĞŶĞƌƚƌĂŶƐƉŽƌƚĂƚŝŽŶƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐ͘
dŚĞ ^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶ
DŽďŝƵƐ ŶĞƌŐǇŚĂƐĚĞǀĞůŽƉĞĚĂƉƌŽƉƌŝĞƚĂƌǇĞůĞĐƚƌŝĐƌĞĨƌŝŐĞƌĂƚŝŽŶŝŶǀĞƌƚĞƌ
ƐǇƐƚĞŵƚŚĂƚƵƚŝůŝǌĞƐďĂƚƚĞƌǇ ĂŶĚ ƐŽůĂƌƚĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐǇ͘ dŚĞ ƐƚĂƌƚƵƉĐŽŶĚƵĐƚĞĚŽǀĞƌ ϱ
ǇĞĂƌƐŽĨ ƌĞƐĞĂƌĐŚĂŶĚĚĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ ;ZΘͿ ŝŶƉĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉǁŝƚŚdŚĞƌŵŽ<ŝŶŐ͕Ă
ŐůŽďĂůůĞĂĚĞƌŝŶǀĞŚŝĐůĞƌĞĨƌŝŐĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ ƚŽĚĞǀĞůŽƉĐƵƐƚŽŵͲĚĞƐŝŐŶĞĚĞƋƵŝƉŵĞŶƚ
ǁŝƚŚŐůŽďĂů/WƚŚĂƚŝƐƌĞĂĚǇĨŽƌƉĂƚĞŶƚ͘
dƌĂĐƚŝŽŶ
DĂƌŬĞƚƐŝǌĞ͗^ŽƵƚŚĨƌŝĐĂ ŚĂƐĂƚŽƚĂůĂĚĚƌĞƐƐĂďůĞŵĂƌŬĞƚ ŽĨϭϱ͕ϬϬϬƚƌƵĐŬƐ͕Ă
ƐĞƌǀŝĐĞĂďůĞĂǀĂŝůĂďůĞŵĂƌŬĞƚ ŽĨϵ͕ϬϬϬ͕ĂŶĚĂƐĞƌǀŝĐĞĂďůĞŽďƚĂŝŶĂďůĞŵĂƌŬĞƚŽĨ
ϰ͕ϱϬϬ͘dŚĞŝŶĚƵƐƚƌǇďĞŶĞĨŝƚƐĨƌŽŵĂƐƚĞĂĚǇƌĞƉůĂĐĞŵĞŶƚĐǇĐůĞŽĨϱʹϳǇĞĂƌƐ ĂŶĚ
ϮʹϯйĂŶŶƵĂůŐƌŽǁƚŚ͕ŵĂŬŝŶŐŝƚƌĞƐŝůŝĞŶƚƚŽĞĐŽŶŽŵŝĐĨůƵĐƚƵĂƚŝŽŶƐ͕ĂƐŝƚŝƐĚƌŝǀĞŶ
ďǇƚŚĞĞƐƐĞŶƚŝĂůĨŽŽĚƚƌĂŶƐƉŽƌƚƐĞĐƚŽƌ͘ĚĚŝƚŝŽŶĂůůǇ͕DŽďŝƵƐŚĂƐƐƚƌŽŶŐ
ĐŽŶŶĞĐƚŝŽŶƐŝŶĂƐƚĨƌŝĐĂ͕ƉĂƌƚŝĐƵůĂƌůǇŝŶ<ĞŶǇĂ͕ĂŶĚƐĞĞƐƚŚŝŽƉŝĂĂƐĂƐƚƌĂƚĞŐŝĐ
ŐƌŽǁƚŚŵĂƌŬĞƚĚƵĞƚŽŝƚƐďĂŶŽŶĨŽƐƐŝůĨƵĞůͲďĂƐĞĚŐĞŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ͘
ZĞǀĞŶƵĞ͗DŽďŝƵƐŶĞƌŐǇ ŚĂƐŐĞŶĞƌĂƚĞĚ Ă ƚŽƚĂůƌĞǀĞŶƵĞŽĨh^Ψϭ͘ϬϱŵŝůůŝŽŶ ƚŽ
ĚĂƚĞ͘ dŚĞĐůŝĞŶƚƉĂǇďĂĐŬƉĞƌŝŽĚŝƐ Ϯ ƚŽϯǇĞĂƌƐ ǁŝƚŚ ŵĞĂƐƵƌĞĚƐĂǀŝŶŐƐŽĨƚŽƚĂů
ǀĞŚŝĐůĞĨƵĞůĐŽŶƐƵŵƉƚŝŽŶŽĨϯϱй ƚŽϱϱй͘
DŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗DŽďŝƵƐŶĞƌŐǇ ŚĂƐĂĐŚŝĞǀĞĚƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐŵŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗
x ĞƉůŽǇĞĚϮϱƵŶŝƚƐƚŽĨŝǀĞůĂƌŐĞůŽŐŝƐƚŝĐƐĐŽŵƉĂŶŝĞƐŽƉĞƌĂƚŝŶŐŝŶ^ŽƵƚŚĨƌŝĐĂ
x DŽƌĞƚŚĂŶϭϬϬ͕ϬϬϬŚŽƵƌƐůŽŐŐĞĚƌƵŶƚŝŵĞ
x dŽƚĂůŽĨϯϲϬ͕ϬϬϬůŝƚĞƌƐŽĨĚŝĞƐĞůŚĂƐďĞĞŶƐĂǀĞĚ
/ŶǀĞƐƚŵĞŶƚKƉƉŽƌƚƵŶŝƚǇ
DŽďŝƵƐŶĞƌŐǇƐĞĞŬƐƚŽƌĂŝƐĞh^ΨϮ͘ϱŵŝůůŝŽŶ ŝŶĞƋƵŝƚǇĂŶĚĚĞďƚ͘dŚĞĨƵŶĚƐǁŝůů
ďĞƵƐĞĚĨŽƌ ŵĂƌŬĞƚŝŶŐ͕ĞǆƉĂŶƐŝŽŶŝŶƚŽŵĂƌŬĞƚƐĂĐƌŽƐƐĨƌŝĐĂĂŶĚƵƌŽƉĞ͕ ĂŶĚ ƚŽ
ĚĞǀĞůŽƉ ĂƐĞĐŽŶĚĂƌǇƉƌŽĚƵĐƚĂŶĚZΘ͘
ƐƚĂďůŝƐŚĞĚ>ŽĐĂƚŝŽŶ
ϮϬϮϬ ^ŽƵƚŚĨƌŝĐĂ

^ĞĐƚŽƌ  ŵƉůŽǇĞĞƐ
ĞƌŽĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐ ϳ
ŵŽďŝůŝƚǇ
ĂƉŝƚĂůZĂŝƐĞĚ
h^Ψϭ͘ϰϮŵŝůůŝŽŶ
>ĞĂĚĞƌƐŚŝƉdĞĂŵ
,ƵŐŽǀĂŶsĞĞŶ͗&ŽƵŶĚĞƌĂŶĚK
,ƵŐŽǀĂŶsĞĞŶ ŚĂƐĨŽƵŶĚĞĚĂŶĚ
ůĞĚ ĨŽƵƌƐƵĐĐĞƐƐĨƵůĂŶĚƉƌŽĨŝƚĂďůĞ
ƐƚĂƌƚƵƉƐ ƚŚĂƚŝŶƚƌŽĚƵĐĞĚ
ŐƌŽƵŶĚďƌĞĂŬŝŶŐƉƌŽĚƵĐƚƐŝŶƚŚĞŝƌ
ƌĞƐƉĞĐƚŝǀĞ ŵĂƌŬĞƚƐ͘ ,ƵŐŽŚĂƐŽǀĞƌ
ϯϬ ǇĞĂƌƐ ŽĨĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞ ŝŶĨŝŶĂŶĐĞ͕
ƉƌŽũĞĐƚŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ͕ƉƌŝǀĂƚĞ
ĞƋƵŝƚǇ͕ĂŶĚĞŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐ͘
/ǀĂĂŶĚĞ:ĂŐĞƌ͗dK
/ǀĂĂŶĚĞ:ĂŐĞƌŝƐĂŶĞŶĞƌŐǇĞǆƉĞƌƚ
ǁŝƚŚŽǀĞƌϮϬ ǇĞĂƌƐ ŽĨ ĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞŝŶ
ĞůĞĐƚƌŝĐĂůĞŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐ͕ƐƉĞĐŝĂůŝǌŝŶŐ
ŝŶƉŽǁĞƌƋƵĂůŝƚǇ͕ƐŽůĂƌWs͕ĂŶĚ
ƚĞĐŚŶŝĐĂůƉƌŽĚƵĐƚĚĞƐŝŐŶ
tĞďƐŝƚĞ
ǁǁǁ͘ŵŽďŝƵƐͲĞŶĞƌŐǇ͘ĐŽŵ
DŽďŝƵƐͲĞŶĞƌŐǇͲƚĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐŝĞƐ
ŽŶƚĂĐƚ
,ƵŐŽǀĂŶsĞĞŶ
ŚƵŐŽΛŵŽďŝƵƐͲĞŶĞƌŐǇ͘ĐŽŵ

DŽďŝƵƐŶĞƌŐǇ
40
ďŽƵƚ
KK^dŝƐĂsŝĞƚŶĂŵĞƐĞƐƚĂƌƚƵƉĚĞǀĞůŽƉŝŶŐĂŶĂƚŝŽŶͲǁŝĚĞŽƉĞŶŶĞƚǁŽƌŬŽĨ
ĞůĞĐƚƌŝĐƚǁŽͲ ĂŶĚĨŽƵƌͲǁŚĞĞůĞƌĐŚĂƌŐŝŶŐƐƚĂƚŝŽŶƐƚŚĂƚĂƌĞŝŶƚĞŐƌĂƚĞĚǁŝƚŚ
ŵŽďŝůĞƚĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐǇĨŽƌĞĂƐǇƚƌĂĐŬŝŶŐĂŶĚƉĂǇŵĞŶƚƐ͘
dŚĞŚĂůůĞŶŐĞ
>ĂĐŬŽĨďƌĂŶĚͲĂŐŶŽƐƚŝĐĐŚĂƌŐŝŶŐŝŶĨƌĂƐƚƌƵĐƚƵƌĞƚŽĂĐĐĞůĞƌĂƚĞƚŚĞ ĂĚŽƉƚŝŽŶŽĨĞͲ
ŵŽďŝůŝƚǇ͕ ŝŵƉƌŽǀĞƚŚĞďĂĚĂŝƌƋƵĂůŝƚǇĂŶĚďƌŝŶŐĚŽǁŶƚŚĞ ƚƌĂŶƐƉŽƌƚĂƚŝŽŶ
ƐĞĐƚŽƌ͛ƐĐĂƌďŽŶĨŽŽƚƉƌŝŶƚ͘
dŚĞ ^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶ
KK^d ďƵŝůĚƐ ĂŶĚŵĂŝŶƚĂŝŶƐ ĂƐŵĂƌƚĂŶĚďƌĂŶĚͲĂŐŶŽƐƚŝĐ sĐŚĂƌŐŝŶŐŶĞƚǁŽƌŬ
ǁŝƚŚƉƌŝŵĞ ůŽĐĂƚŝŽŶƐŝŶŵƵůƚŝͲƵŶŝƚďƵŝůĚŝŶŐƐ͕ŚŽƚĞůƐ͕ĨĂĐƚŽƌŝĞƐĂŶĚůĂƌŐĞƐŚĂƌĞĚ
ƉĂƌŬŝŶŐĂƌĞĂƐ͘dŚĞƐƚĂƌƚƵƉŐĞŶĞƌĂƚĞƐ ƌĞǀĞŶƵĞƚŚƌŽƵŐŚŝƚƐŚĂƌŐŝŶŐͲĂƐͲĂͲ
^ĞƌǀŝĐĞŵŽĚĞůĂŶĚŵƵůƚŝͲǇĞĂƌĞǆĐůƵƐŝǀĞĐŽŶƚƌĂĐƚƐǁŝƚŚƚŚĞƐĞůŽĐĂƚŝŽŶƐ͘
&ƵƌƚŚĞƌŵŽƌĞ͕KK^dŽĨĨĞƌƐĨƌĂŶĐŚŝƐĞŵŽĚĞůƐǁŚĞƌĞůŽĐĂƚŝŽŶƐŽƌďƵƐŝŶĞƐƐĞƐ
ĐĂŶďƵǇĐŚĂƌŐĞƌƐ ĂŶĚKK^dŽƉĞƌĂƚĞƐ ǁŝƚŚĂƌĞĐƵƌƌŝŶŐƐƵďƐĐƌŝƉƚŝŽŶŽǀĞƌŝƚƐ
ŽǁŶ ŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚƉůĂƚĨŽƌŵ͘>ĂƐƚůǇ͕KK^dƌƵŶƐĂŵĂƌŬĞƚƉůĂĐĞĂƉƉƌŽĂĐŚĨŽƌ
ůŝŶŬĞĚƐĞƌǀŝĐĞƐƐƵĐŚĂƐĂĚƐĨŽƌĐŽŵŵĞƌĐŝĂůďƌĂŶĚƐŽƌŝƚƐĐůŝĞŶƚĞůĞ ŽŶŝƚƐĂƉƉ͘
dƌĂĐƚŝŽŶ
DĂƌŬĞƚƐŝǌĞ͗dŚĞsŵĂƌŬĞƚŝŶsŝĞƚŶĂŵŝƐƉŽŝƐĞĚƚŽƌĂƉŝĚŐƌŽǁ ĂƐƚŚĞ
ĐŽŵďŝŶĞĚ ŶƵŵďĞƌŽĨ ĞůĞĐƚƌŝĐďŝŬĞƐĂŶĚĐĂƌƐŝƐĞƐƚŝŵĂƚĞĚ ƚŽƌĞĂĐŚĂďŽƵƚϭϴ͘ϰ
ŵŝůůŝŽŶďǇϮϬϯϬ͘ƐŝŐŶŝĨŝĐĂŶƚũƵŵƉĨƌŽŵƚŚĞĐƵƌƌĞŶƚŶƵŵďĞƌŽĨĂƌŽƵŶĚϯͲϰ
ŵŝůůŝŽŶĞůĞĐƚƌŝĐǀĞŚŝĐůĞƐ͘KK^dĞǆƉĞĐƚƐƚŽŚĂǀĞĂ ƚĂƌŐĞƚĂĐĐĞƐƐŝďůĞŵĂƌŬĞƚŽĨ
ĂƌŽƵŶĚϭϯ ŵŝůůŝŽŶ ǀĞŚŝĐůĞƐ͘
ZĞǀĞŶƵĞ͗ƐŽĨƚŚĞĞŶĚŽĨϮϬϮϰ͕KK^dŚĂƐĂƉƉƌŽǆŝŵĂƚĞůǇh^Ψϱϳ͕ϬϬϬŝŶ
ĂŶŶƵĂůƌĞĐƵƌƌŝŶŐƌĞǀĞŶƵĞ͘
DŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗KK^dŚĂƐƌĞĂĐŚĞĚƐĞǀĞƌĂů ŵŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐƚŚĂƚĂƌĞƉŽƐŝƚŝŽŶŝŶŐŝƚƚŽ
ďĞĂŵĂƌŬĞƚůĞĂĚĞƌŝŶsŝĞƚŶĂŵ͗
x ^ƚƌĂƚĞŐŝĐƉĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉƐǁŝƚŚ z͕'Z͕,^͕ĂŶĚŽƚŚĞƌƐ͘
x ǆƉĂŶƐŝŽŶ ƚŽϮϮϴ ůŽĐĂƚŝŽŶƐǁŝƚŚŵŽƌĞƚŚĂŶϭ͕ϴϬϬĐŚĂƌŐŝŶŐƉŽŝŶƚƐ͘
x ZĞĂĐŚĞĚŽǀĞƌϭ͕ϬϬϬĨƌĞƋƵĞŶƚĂĐƚŝǀĞƵƐĞƌƐ ĂŶĚ ŽǀĞƌϴ͕ϬϬϬŚĂǀŝŶŐ ĂŶĂĐĐŽƵŶƚ
ƌĞŐŝƐƚĞƌĞĚ͘
/ŶǀĞƐƚŵĞŶƚKƉƉŽƌƚƵŶŝƚǇ
KK^dƐĞĞŬƐ h^ΨϯͲϰŵŝůůŝŽŶǁŝƚŚ ƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐƐƉůŝƚ͗
x h^ ΨϮŵŝůůŝŽŶŝŶĞƋƵŝƚǇĂŶĚͬŽƌ ĐŽŶǀĞƌƚŝďůĞůŽĂŶƐĨŽƌŽƉĞƌĂƚŝŶŐĞǆƉĞŶƐĞƐ͘
x h^ΨϭͲϮŵŝůůŝŽŶŝŶĚĞďƚĨŝŶĂŶĐŝŶŐĨŽƌĐĂƉŝƚĂůĞǆƉĞŶĚŝƚƵƌĞƐƵĐŚĂƐĞǆƉĂŶƐŝŽŶ
ĂŶĚŝŶǀĞƐƚŵĞŶƚƐĨŽƌŝƚƐĞͲĐŚĂƌŐŝŶŐŶĞƚǁŽƌŬ͘
ƐƚĂďůŝƐŚĞĚ>ŽĐĂƚŝŽŶ
ϮϬϮϬ  sŝĞƚŶĂŵ
^ĞĐƚŽƌ ŵƉůŽǇĞĞƐ
ĞƌŽĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐ Ϯϱ
ŵŽďŝůŝƚǇ
ĂƉŝƚĂůZĂŝƐĞĚ
h^ΨϮŵŝůůŝŽŶ
>ĞĂĚĞƌƐŚŝƉdĞĂŵ
^ƚĞĨĂŶ<ĂƵĨŵĂŶ͗ K ĂŶĚĨŽƵŶĚĞƌ
ϭϴнǇĞĂƌƐŽĨĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞůĞĂĚŝŶŐ
ĐŽŵƉĂŶŝĞƐǁŝƚŚĂĨŽĐƵƐŽŶ
ƚĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐǇŝŶŶŽǀĂƚŝŽŶ͕ŵĂƌŬĞƚŝŶŐ͕
ƐĂůĞƐĂŶĚĚĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ
dŚƵ>Ğ͗KK
ϳнǇĞĂƌƐŽĨĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞŝŶŽƉĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐ͕
ĨĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ ĂŶĚƉƌŽƉĞƌƚǇŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ
ĂĐƌŽƐƐƉƌŽŵŝŶĞŶƚĨŝƌŵƐ
EŐƵǇĞŶdƌĂŶ,ƵƵEŐƵǇĞŶ͗dK
ϭϬнǇĞĂƌƐŽĨĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞŝŶƌĞƐĞĂƌĐŚ
ĂŶĚƚĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐǇŝŶŶŽǀĂƚŝŽŶƐ
ĚĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ͘WŚŝŶĐŽŵƉƵƚĞƌ
ƐĐŝĞŶĐĞĂŶĚĞŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐ͘
tĞďƐŝƚĞ
ǁǁǁ͘ĞďŽŽƐƚ͘ǀŶ
ĞďŽŽƐƚƉŽǁĞƌ
ŽŶƚĂĐƚ
^ƚĞĨĂŶ<ĂƵĨŵĂŶŶ͕K
ƐƚĞĨĂŶ͘ŬĂƵĨŵĂŶŶΛĞďŽŽƐƚ͘ǀŶ
KK^d
ǁǁǁ͘Wϰ'WĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉƐ͘ŽƌŐ
41
Sub-Sector Focus
Renewable  
Energy
ďŽƵƚ
ŚĂŶĂ^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐ dĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐǇĞŶŚĂŶĐĞƐǁĂƚĞƌƌĞƐŝůŝĞŶĐĞďǇƌĞĐŽǀĞƌŝŶŐŽŝůƐĂŶĚ
ĨĂƚƐĨŽƌĂĚǀĂŶĐĞĚďŝŽĨƵĞůƉƌŽĚƵĐƚŝŽŶ͘dŚŝƐƉƌŽĐĞƐƐĚĞĐŽŶƚĂŵŝŶĂƚĞƐĚŝƐĐŚĂƌŐĞ
ĨƌŽŵƚŚĞĨŽŽĚŝŶĚƵƐƚƌǇ͕ƌĞĚƵĐĞƐ ǁĂƚĞƌƉŽůůƵƚŝŽŶĂŶĚĚĞƉĞŶĚĞŶĐĞŽŶĨŽƐƐŝů
ĨƵĞůƐ͘
dŚĞŚĂůůĞŶŐĞ
dŚĞƌĞŝƐĂŶ ŝŶƉƵƚƐĚĞĨŝĐŝƚĨŽƌďŝŽĚŝĞƐĞůƉƌŽĚƵĐƚŝŽŶ͕ƉĂƌƚŝĐƵůĂƌůǇĚƵĞƚŽƚŚĞ
ůŝŵŝƚĞĚƐƵƉƉůǇŽĨƵƐĞĚĐŽŽŬŝŶŐŽŝů;hKͿĂŶĚďƌŽǁŶŐƌĞĂƐĞ͘ƐĚĞŵĂŶĚĨŽƌ
ĂůƚĞƌŶĂƚŝǀĞĞŶĞƌŐŝĞƐƌŝƐĞƐ͕ƚŚĞƌĞĐŽǀĞƌǇŽĨ hKĂŶĚďƌŽǁŶŐƌĞĂƐĞ ďĞĐŽŵĞƐ
ŝŶĐƌĞĂƐŝŶŐůǇǀĂůƵĂďůĞ͕ƉƌŽǀŝĚŝŶŐĂŶĞǁŝŶƉƵƚĨŽƌďŝŽĚŝĞƐĞůƉƌŽĚƵĐƚŝŽŶ͘
ĚĚŝƚŝŽŶĂůůǇ͕ĂĐĐƵŵƵůĂƚŝŽŶ ŝŶƐĞǁĞƌŶĞƚǁŽƌŬƐůĞĂĚƐƚŽŽďƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶƐ͕ĨůŽŽĚŝŶŐ
ĂŶĚǁĂƚĞƌƉŽůůƵƚŝŽŶ͕ŚŝŐŚůŝŐŚƚŝŶŐƚŚĞŶĞĞĚĨŽƌĞĨĨĞĐƚŝǀĞǁĂƐƚĞŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ͘
dŚĞ^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶ
ŚĂŶĂ^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐƉƌŽǀŝĚĞƐĂĐŝƌĐƵůĂƌĞĐŽŶŽŵǇƐĞƌǀŝĐĞ͕ŝŶǁŚŝĐŚŝƚƵƐĞƐĐƵƚƚŝŶŐͲ
ĞĚŐĞĞƋƵŝƉŵĞŶƚ ƚŽƌĞĐŽǀĞƌĨĂƚƚǇǁĂƐƚĞĨƌŽŵƚŚĞ ĨŽŽĚƉƌĞƉĂƌĂƚŝŽŶĂŶĚ
ƉƌŽĚƵĐƚŝŽŶŝŶĚƵƐƚƌǇ͘dŚĞƋƵĂůŝƚǇŽĨƚŚĞĐŽůůĞĐƚĞĚǁĂƐƚĞŝƐĂƉƉƌŽƉƌŝĂƚĞĨŽƌ
ďŝŽĚŝĞƐĞůĐŽŶǀĞƌƐŝŽŶ͘dŚĞĐŽŵƉĂŶǇŽĨĨĞƌƐ ĂĐŽŵƉƌĞŚĞŶƐŝǀĞĚŝƐĐŚĂƌŐĞ
ĚĞĐŽŶƚĂŵŝŶĂƚŝŽŶƐĞƌǀŝĐĞ͕ǁŚŝĐŚŝŶĐůƵĚĞƐĞƋƵŝƉŵĞŶƚƌĞŶƚĂůĂŶĚŵĂŝŶƚĞŶĂŶĐĞ͕
ĂŶĚ ƚŚĞůŽŐŝƐƚŝĐƐŶĞĐĞƐƐĂƌǇƚŽŵĂŶĂŐĞĂŶĚĚĞůŝǀĞƌǇƚŚĞǁĂƐƚĞĨŽƌďŝŽĨƵĞů
ƉƌŽĚƵĐƚŝŽŶ͘dŚĞƐǇƐƚĞŵĂůƐŽŵĞĂƐƵƌĞƐƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇŝŶĚŝĐĂƚŽƌƐŝŶƚĞƌŵƐŽĨ
ƌĞĚƵĐĞĚĐĂƌďŽŶĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐ ĂŶĚƐĂǀĞĚǁĂƚĞƌ͘
dƌĂĐƚŝŽŶ
DĂƌŬĞƚ ƐŝǌĞ͗dŚĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶŚĂƐĂƚŽƚĂůĂĚĚƌĞƐƐĂďůĞŵĂƌŬĞƚŽĨϭϲϳ͕ϬϬϬŝŶĚƵƐƚƌŝĂů
ŬŝƚĐŚĞŶƐ ĂŶĚŚĂŶĂ^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐ͛ ƐĞƌǀŝĐĞĂďůĞŽďƚĂŝŶĂďůĞŵĂƌŬĞƚŝƐƌĞĂĐŚŝŶŐ Ăƚ
ůĞĂƐƚϯ͕ϬϬϬŬŝƚĐŚĞŶƐŝŶƚŚĞŶĞǆƚƚǁŽǇĞĂƌƐ͘ dŚĞ&ĂƚƐ͕KŝůƐ͕ĂŶĚ'ƌĞĂƐĞ;&K'Ϳ
ŵĂƌŬĞƚ͕ƉĂƌƚŝĐƵůĂƌůǇĨŽƌďƌŽǁŶŐƌĞĂƐĞ͕ŝƐƉŽŝƐĞĚĨŽƌƐŝŐŶŝĨŝĐĂŶƚŐƌŽǁƚŚ͕ůŝŶŬĞĚ
ƚŽďŝŽĨƵĞůƉƌŽĚƵĐƚŝŽŶƉƌŽũĞĐƚĞĚƚŽƌĞĂĐŚh^ ΨϮϮϱ͘ϵďŝůůŝŽŶďǇϮϬϮϴ͘/Ŷ
ŽůŽŵďŝĂ͕ƚŚŝƐĞǆƉĂŶƐŝŽŶŝƐƐƵƉƉŽƌƚĞĚďǇƐƚƌŝĐƚĞƌĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂůƌĞŐƵůĂƚŝŽŶƐ
ĂŶĚŐŽǀĞƌŶŵĞŶƚŝŶŝƚŝĂƚŝǀĞƐƉƌŽŵŽƚŝŶŐƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇ͘
ZĞǀĞŶƵĞ͗dŽĚĂƚĞ͕ŚĂŶĂ^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐ ŚĂƐĂĐŚŝĞǀĞĚh^Ψϯϲϱ͕ϬϬϬŝŶƌĞǀĞŶƵĞ͕ǁŝƚŚ
ŽǀĞƌh^ΨϭϰϬ͕ϬϬϬĂĐŚŝĞǀĞĚ ďǇYϮ ϮϬϮϰ͕ĂŶĚĂĐŚƵƌŶƌĂƚĞĐůŽƐĞƚŽǌĞƌŽǁŝƚŚ
ƉŽƐŝƚŝǀĞĞĂƌŶŝŶŐƐďĞĨŽƌĞŝŶƚĞƌĞƐƚ͕ƚĂǆĞƐ͕ĚĞƉƌĞĐŝĂƚŝŽŶ͕ĂŶĚĂŵŽƌƚŝǌĂƚŝŽŶ
;/dͿ͘
DŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗ŚĂŶĂ^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐŚĂƐĂĐŚŝĞǀĞĚƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐŵŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗
x ŽůůĂďŽƌĂƚŝŽŶƐǁŝƚŚŵĂũŽƌƌĞƐƚĂƵƌĂŶƚĂŶĚŚŽƚĞůďƌĂŶĚƐŝŶŽůŽŵďŝĂ͕
ŝŶĐůƵĚŝŶŐ&ƌŝƐďǇ͕:ƵĂŶsĂůĚĞǌĂŶĚƌĞƉĞƐΘtĂĨĨůĞƐ͘
x ŽŵŵĞƌĐŝĂůĂŐƌĞĞŵĞŶƚƐǁŝƚŚďƌĂŶĚƐƐƵĐŚDĐŽŶĂůĚΖƐ ĂŶĚƵƌŐĞƌ<ŝŶŐ͕
ǁŚŝĐŚŚŽůĚƐƚŚĞƉŽƚĞŶƚŝĂůĨŽƌŝŶƚĞƌŶĂƚŝŽŶĂůĞǆƉĂŶƐŝŽŶ͘
/ŶǀĞƐƚŵĞŶƚKƉƉŽƌƚƵŶŝƚǇ
ŚĂŶĂ^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐŝƐůŽŽŬŝŶŐĨŽƌh^ Ψϭ ŵŝůůŝŽŶ ƚŽĐŽŶƐŽůŝĚĂƚĞ ŝƚƐ ŐƌŽǁƚŚƐƚƌĂƚĞŐǇ
ĂŶĚĞǆƉĂŶĚƚŚĞ ďƵƐŝŶĞƐƐŝŶŽůŽŵďŝĂĂŶĚĂďƌŽĂĚ͘
ƐƚĂďůŝƐŚĞĚ>ŽĐĂƚŝŽŶ
ϮϬϭϵ  ŽůŽŵďŝĂ
^ĞĐƚŽƌ ŵƉůŽǇĞĞƐ
ZĞŶĞǁĂďůĞ   ϭϭ
ĞŶĞƌŐǇ
ĂƉŝƚĂůZĂŝƐĞĚ
h^Ψϭ͘Ϯ ŵŝůůŝŽŶ ŝŶ^&ĂŶĚĚĞďƚ
>ĞĂĚĞƌƐŚŝƉdĞĂŵ
&ƌĂŶĐŝƐĐŽsŝǀĂƐ͗ K
ϭϱн ǇĞĂƌƐŽĨĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞ͘ ĨŝŶĂŶĐĞ
ĞǆƉĞƌƚǁŝƚŚĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞŝŶďƵƐŝŶĞƐƐ
ƉůĂŶ ĨŽƌŵƵůĂƚŝŽŶ͕ŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚĂŶĚ
ƐƚƌĂƚĞŐŝĐŐƌŽǁƚŚ͘
:ĂǀŝĞƌŶĚƌĞƐĞĂƐƚƌŽ͗ dK
ϭϳн ǇĞĂƌƐŽĨĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞĂŶĚƚǁŽ
ƉĂƚĞŶƚƐƚŽŚŝƐŶĂŵĞ͘ŶĞǆƉĞƌƚŝŶ
ĚĞǀĞůŽƉŝŶŐŝŶŶŽǀĂƚŝǀĞǁĂƚĞƌ
ĚĞĐŽŶƚĂŵŝŶĂƚŝŽŶƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐ͘
ŶĚƌĞƐ'ĂůŝŶĚŽ͗K
ϭϱн ǇĞĂƌƐŽĨĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞŝŶͲůĞǀĞů
ƌŽůĞƐ ǁŝƚŚ ƐƚƌŽŶŐƚƌĂĐŬƌĞĐŽƌĚŝŶ
ŵĂŶĂŐŝŶŐŝŶǀĞƐƚŵĞŶƚĂŶĚŐƌĂŶƚ
ƉƌŽũĞĐƚƐ͘ ^ĞƌŝĂůƚĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐǇ
ĞŶƚƌĞƉƌĞŶĞƵƌĂŶĚŝŵƉĂĐƚŝŶǀĞƐƚŽƌ͕
ĂŶĚĂŵĞŵďĞƌŽĨƚŚĞ'ůŽďĂůdŽƉ dŝĞƌ
ŝŵƉĂĐƚŝŶǀĞƐƚŵĞŶƚŶĞƚǁŽƌŬ͘
tĞďƐŝƚĞ
ǁǁǁ͘ǌŚĂŶĂƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐ͘ĐŽŵ
ǌŚĂŶĂͲƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐ
ŽŶƚĂĐƚ
&ƌĂŶĐŝƐĐŽsŝǀĂƐ
ĨƌĂŶĐŝƐĐŽ͘ǀŝǀĂƐΛǌŚĂŶĂƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐ͘ĐŽŵ
ŚĂŶĂ^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐ
ǁǁǁ͘Wϰ'WĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉƐ͘ŽƌŐ
43
ǁǁǁ͘Wϰ'WĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉƐ͘ŽƌŐ
ďŽƵƚ
dǆ ŝƐƌĞĚĞĨŝŶŝŶŐĞŶĞƌŐǇƐƚŽƌĂŐĞďǇƌĞƉƵƌƉŽƐŝŶŐƉƌĞŵĂƚƵƌĞůǇĚŝƐĐĂƌĚĞĚ
ůŝƚŚŝƵŵͲŝŽŶďĂƚƚĞƌŝĞƐƚŚĂƚǁŽƵůĚŽƚŚĞƌǁŝƐĞƵŶĚĞƌŐŽĨŝŶĂůĚŝƐƉŽƐĂů͘tŝƚŚĐƵƚƚŝŶŐͲ
ĞĚŐĞƚĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐǇĂŶĚĂĐŽŵŵŝƚŵĞŶƚƚŽƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇ͕dǆĞǆƚĞŶĚƐďĂƚƚĞƌǇůŝĨĞ͕
ƌĞĚƵĐĞƐǁĂƐƚĞ͕ĂŶĚŵŝŶŝŵŝǌĞƐĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂůŝŵƉĂĐƚ͕ĞŶĂďůŝŶŐĂĐŝƌĐƵůĂƌ
ĞĐŽŶŽŵǇĨŽƌďĂƚƚĞƌǇƉƌŽĚƵĐƚŝŽŶ͘
dŚĞŚĂůůĞŶŐĞ
dŚĞƌĂƉŝĚƌŝƐĞŽĨĞůĞĐƚƌŝĐǀĞŚŝĐůĞƐĂŶĚƌĞŶĞǁĂďůĞĞŶĞƌŐǇŚĂƐůĞĚƚŽĂƐƵƌŐĞŝŶ
ďĂƚƚĞƌǇǁĂƐƚĞ͕ƉŽƐŝŶŐƐŝŐŶŝĨŝĐĂŶƚĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂůĂŶĚƐƵƉƉůǇĐŚĂŝŶƌŝƐŬƐ͘
dƌĂĚŝƚŝŽŶĂůĚŝƐƉŽƐĂůŵĞƚŚŽĚƐĐŽŶƚƌŝďƵƚĞƚŽƉŽůůƵƚŝŽŶ͕ǁŚŝůĞƚŚĞĞǆƚƌĂĐƚŝŽŶŽĨ
ŶĞǁƌĂǁŵĂƚĞƌŝĂůƐŝƐĐŽƐƚůǇ ĂŶĚƵŶƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďůĞ͘ĚĚŝƚŝŽŶĂůůǇ͕ƚŚĞŝŶĚƵƐƚƌǇĨĂĐĞƐ
ŝŶĞĨĨŝĐŝĞŶĐŝĞƐŝŶďĂƚƚĞƌǇƌĞĐǇĐůŝŶŐŝŶĨƌĂƐƚƌƵĐƚƵƌĞĂŶĚƌĞŐƵůĂƚŽƌǇŚƵƌĚůĞƐƚŚĂƚ
ƐůŽǁƉƌŽŐƌĞƐƐ͘
dŚĞ ^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶ
dǆ ĨŽĐƵƐĞƐ ŽŶůĂƌŐĞͲƐĐĂůĞŐƌŝĚĂƉƉůŝĐĂƚŝŽŶƐĂŶĚĐŽƐƚͲĞĨĨĞĐƚŝǀĞĞŶĞƌŐǇƐƚŽƌĂŐĞ͕
ƉƌŽǀŝĚŝŶŐƌĞĨƵƌďŝƐŚĞĚďĂƚƚĞƌŝĞƐĨŽƌƚŚĞsƐĞĐƚŽƌ ĨŽƌƐŵĂůůͲƚŽͲŵĞĚŝƵŵͲƐĐĂůĞ
ĂƉƉůŝĐĂƚŝŽŶƐ͕ĂƐǁĞůůĂƐ ůĂƌŐĞͲƐĐĂůĞŐƌŝĚĂƉƉůŝĐĂƚŝŽŶƐǁŝƚŚĂƚƚĞƌǇŶĞƌŐǇ^ƚŽƌĂŐĞ
^ǇƐƚĞŵƐ;^^Ϳ͘dǆŽĨĨĞƌƐĂĐŽƐƚͲĞĨĨĞĐƚŝǀĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƚŚĂƚƐƚƌĞŶŐƚŚĞŶƐŝƚƐ
ĐŽŵƉĞƚŝƚŝǀĞĞĚŐĞ ǁŝƚŚƐĞĐŽŶĚͲůŝĨĞďĂƚƚĞƌŝĞƐƉƌŝĐĞĚϯϬͲϰϬйůŽǁĞƌƚŚĂŶŶĞǁ
ĂůƚĞƌŶĂƚŝǀĞƐ͘ǇĂĚĚƌĞƐƐŝŶŐĂŬĞǇŐĂƉŝŶďĂƚƚĞƌǇĚŝĂŐŶŽƐƚŝĐƐĂŶĚƐĞĐŽŶĚͲůŝĨĞ
ƉƌŽĚƵĐƚŝŽŶ͕ŝƚ ŚĞůƉƐ ůŽǁĞƌĐŽƐƚƐĂŶĚĞǆƉĂŶĚĂĐĐĞƐƐƚŽƌĞŶĞǁĂďůĞĞŶĞƌŐǇ
ƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐ͘
dƌĂĐƚŝŽŶ
DĂƌŬĞƚƐŝǌĞ͗ dǆŽƉĞƌĂƚĞƐŝŶƚŚĞƌĂƉŝĚůǇŐƌŽǁŝŶŐŐůŽďĂůĞŶĞƌŐǇƐƚŽƌĂŐĞ
ŵĂƌŬĞƚ͕ǀĂůƵĞĚĂƚ h^ ΨϱϬďŝůůŝŽŶĂŶŶƵĂůůǇĂŶĚƉƌŽũĞĐƚĞĚƚŽĞǆƉĂŶĚĂƚĂϮϱй
ĐŽŵƉŽƵŶĚ ŵŽŶƚŚůǇŐƌŽǁƚŚƌĂƚĞ ŽǀĞƌƚŚĞŶĞǆƚƚǁŽĚĞĐĂĚĞƐ͘/Ŷ>ĂƚŝŶŵĞƌŝĐĂ͕
dǆ͛ƐƐĞƌǀŝĐĞĂďůĞĂǀĂŝůĂďůĞŵĂƌŬĞƚŝƐĂŶĞƐƚŝŵĂƚĞĚh^ΨϱϬϬŵŝůůŝŽŶĂŶŶƵĂůůǇ͕
ǁŝƚŚŽůŽŵďŝĂĂĐĐŽƵŶƚŝŶŐĨŽƌh^ΨϱϱŵŝůůŝŽŶ͘dĂƌŐĞƚŝŶŐĂϮϬйƚŽϰϬйƐŚĂƌĞŽĨ
ŽůŽŵďŝĂ͛ƐŵĂƌŬĞƚǁŝƚŚŝŶĨŝǀĞǇĞĂƌƐ͕dǆĂŝŵƐĨŽƌ ƚŽŐĞŶĞƌĂƚĞh^ΨϭϬŵŝůůŝŽŶ
ŝŶĂŶŶƵĂů ƐĂůĞƐ͘
ZĞǀĞŶƵĞ͗dǆŐĞŶĞƌĂƚĞĚh^Ψϰϭϱ͕ϬϬϬ;Φϯϴϭ͕ϬϬϬͿ ŝŶƌĞǀĞŶƵĞĂƐŽĨYϰϮϬϮϰ͘
DŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗dǆ ŚĂƐĂĐŚŝĞǀĞĚƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐŵŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗
x &ŝƌƐƚĐŽŵƉĂŶǇŝŶƚŚĞƌĞŐŝŽŶƚŽŵĂŶƵĨĂĐƚƵƌĞĂŶĚƌĞƉƵƌƉŽƐĞůŝƚŚŝƵŵͲŝŽŶ
ďĂƚƚĞƌŝĞƐ͘
x ƵŝůƚƉĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉƐǁŝƚŚŝŶĚƵƐƚƌǇůĞĂĚĞƌƐƐƵĐŚĂƐƵƚĞĐŽ͕sŽůǀŽ͕Dt͕ĞůƐŝĂ͕
ĐŽƉĞƚƌŽůĂŶĚ/^͘
x ĞǀĞůŽƉĞĚĂŶĚƉĂƚĞŶƚĞĚŝƚƐŽǁŶďĂƚƚĞƌǇĚŝĂŐŶŽƐŝƐƉƌŽĐĞƐƐĂŶĚĚĞƉůŽǇĞĚŽǀĞƌ
ϭDtŚŽĨƐĞĐŽŶĚͲůŝĨĞďĂƚƚĞƌŝĞƐŝŶƚŚĞŵĂƌŬĞƚ͕ĨƵƌƚŚĞƌƐŽůŝĚŝĨǇŝŶŐŝƚƐƉŽƐŝƚŝŽŶĂƐ
ĂŶŝŶĚƵƐƚƌǇůĞĂĚĞƌ͘
/ŶǀĞƐƚŵĞŶƚKƉƉŽƌƚƵŶŝƚǇ
dǆŝƐƌĂŝƐŝŶŐ h^Ψϰϵϭ͕ϬϬϬ ;ΦϰϱϬ͕ϬϬϬͿ ƚŽĞǆƉĂŶĚƉƌŽĚƵĐƚŝŽŶ͕ĂƵƚŽŵĂƚĞ
ƉƌŽĐĞƐƐĞƐ͕ĂŶĚƐĞĐƵƌĞƉƌŽĚƵĐƚĐĞƌƚŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶƐ͘dŚŝƐŝŶǀĞƐƚŵĞŶƚǁŝůůƐĐĂůĞ
ŽƉĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐ͕ĞŶŚĂŶĐĞĞĨĨŝĐŝĞŶĐǇ͕ĂŶĚƐƚƌĞŶŐƚŚĞŶ ŝƚƐ ŵĂƌŬĞƚƉŽƐŝƚŝŽŶŝŶŐƚŽĚƌŝǀĞ
ŝŶĐƌĞĂƐĞĚ ĂĚŽƉƚŝŽŶŽĨĐŽƐƚͲĞĨĨĞĐƚŝǀĞ͕ƐĞĐŽŶĚͲůŝĨĞďĂƚƚĞƌǇƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐ͘
dǆ
ƐƚĂďůŝƐŚĞĚ>ŽĐĂƚŝŽŶ
ϮϬϮϬ  ŽůŽŵďŝĂ

^ĞĐƚŽƌ ŵƉůŽǇĞĞƐ
ZĞŶĞǁĂďůĞ ϭϬ
ĞŶĞƌŐǇ
ĂƉŝƚĂůZĂŝƐĞĚ
h^ΨϰϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
>ĞĂĚĞƌƐŚŝƉdĞĂŵ
ůĞũĂŶĚƌŽĂŵĂƌŐŽ͗ŽͲĨŽƵŶĚĞƌ
ĂŶĚK
WŚǇƐŝĐƐĞŶŐŝŶĞĞƌƐƉĞĐŝĂůŝǌŝŶŐŝŶ
ůŝƚŚŝƵŵͲŝŽŶďĂƚƚĞƌǇĚĞƐŝŐŶĂŶĚ
ƚƌĞĂƚŵĞŶƚ ĂŶĚ ĞǆƉĞƌƚŝƐĞŝŶ
ĚŝĂŐŶŽƐƚŝĐŵĂĐŚŝŶĞĚĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ
ĂŶĚƉƌŽĐĞƐƐŝŶŶŽǀĂƚŝŽŶ
WĂďůŽĂƐƚĞůůĂŶŽƐ ZĂŵĞůůŝ͗ŽͲ
ĨŽƵŶĚĞƌ ĂŶĚKK
>ĂǁǇĞƌĂŶĚƉŽůŝƚŝĐĂůƐĐŝĞŶƚŝƐƚǁŝƚŚ
ĞǆƉĞƌƚŝƐĞŝŶŵĂƌŬĞƚŝŶŐ͕ƌĞŐƵůĂƚŝŽŶ͕
ĂŶĚƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďůĞĚĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ
ƉƌŽũĞĐƚŝŵƉůĞŵĞŶƚĂƚŝŽŶ
EĞƐƐŝŵƐƐĂĚ͗D
DĞĐŚĂŶŝĐĂůĞŶŐŝŶĞĞƌǁŝƚŚĂ
ŵĂƐƚĞƌΖƐĚĞŐƌĞĞŝŶƌĞŶĞǁĂďůĞ
ĞŶĞƌŐŝĞƐĂŶĚĂǀĂƐƚŬŶŽǁůĞĚŐĞŽĨ
ƚŚĞĞŶĞƌŐǇƐĞĐƚŽƌ͕ĂƐǁĞůůĂƐ
ĞŶĞƌŐǇͲďĂƐĞĚŵĂƌŬĞƚƐ
tĞďƐŝƚĞ
ǁǁǁ͘ďĂƚǆ͘ĐŽ
ďĂƚǆĐŽ
ŽŶƚĂĐƚ
WĂďůŽĂƐƚĞůůĂŶŽƐZĂŵĞůůŝ
ƉĐĂƐƚĞůůĂŶŽƐΛďĂƚǆ͘ĐŽ
44
ǁǁǁ͘Wϰ'WĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉƐ͘ŽƌŐ
ďŽƵƚ
ŶĞŐĂŶĞƌŐŝĞƐDĂŶƵĨĂĐƚƵƌŝŶŐ;DͿĚĞƐŝŐŶƐĂŶĚƉƌŽĚƵĐĞƐŵŽĚĞƌŶ
ĞŶĞƌŐǇͲĞĨĨŝĐŝĞŶƚĐŽŽŬŝŶŐƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐƉŽǁĞƌĞĚďǇĨƵĞůƉĞůůĞƚƐŵĂĚĞĨƌŽŵ
ƌĞĂĚŝůǇĂǀĂŝůĂďůĞǁĂƐƚĞďŝŽŵĂƐƐ͕ŝŶĐůƵĚŝŶŐƐƉĞŶƚĐŽĨĨĞĞŐƌŽƵŶĚƐ͕
ƐĂǁĚƵƐƚ͕ĂŶĚĐŽĨĨĞĞŚƵƐŬƐ͘dŚĞhŶŝƚĞĚEĂƚŝŽŶƐĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ
WƌŽŐƌĂŵŵĞ;hEWͿŚĂƐƌĞĐŽŐŶŝǌĞĚDĂƐŽŶĞŽĨƚŚĞǁŽƌůĚ͛ƐƚŽƉƐŝǆ
ŐƌĂƐƐƌŽŽƚƐĞŶĞƌŐǇĐŽŵƉĂŶŝĞƐ͕ŚŝŐŚůŝŐŚƚŝŶŐŝƚƐŝŶŶŽǀĂƚŝŽŶĂŶĚŝŵƉĂĐƚ͘
dŚĞŚĂůůĞŶŐĞ
ƚŚŝŽƉŝĂΖƐŚĞĂǀǇƌĞůŝĂŶĐĞŽŶƐŽůŝĚĨƵĞůƐůŝŬĞǁŽŽĚ͕ĐŚĂƌĐŽĂůĂŶĚĐƌŽƉ
ƌĞƐŝĚƵĞƐĨŽƌĐŽŽŬŝŶŐĂŶĚŚĞĂƚŝŶŐĐƌĞĂƚĞƐƐĞǀĞƌĞĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂůĂŶĚ
ŚĞĂůƚŚŝƐƐƵĞƐ͘dƌĂĚŝƚŝŽŶĂůŵĞƚŚŽĚƐĐŽŶƚƌŝďƵƚĞƚŽĚĞĨŽƌĞƐƚĂƚŝŽŶ͕ŝŶĚŽŽƌ
ĂŝƌƉŽůůƵƚŝŽŶĂŶĚŽǀĞƌϲϬ͕ϬϬϬƉƌĞǀĞŶƚĂďůĞĚĞĂƚŚƐĂŶŶƵĂůůǇ͕
ĚŝƐƉƌŽƉŽƌƚŝŽŶĂƚĞůǇĂĨĨĞĐƚŝŶŐǁŽŵĞŶĂŶĚĐŚŝůĚƌĞŶ͘tŝƚŚϵϬйŽĨƚŚĞ
ƉŽƉƵůĂƚŝŽŶĂĨĨĞĐƚĞĚ͕ĂŶĞƐƚŝŵĂƚĞĚϮϱŵŝůůŝŽŶŚŽƵƐĞŚŽůĚƐƵƌŐĞŶƚůǇŶĞĞĚ
ĐůĞĂŶĞƌĐŽŽŬŝŶŐƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐ͘
dŚĞ^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶ
D͛ƐŵŽĚĞůŝŶƚĞŐƌĂƚĞƐĂůŽĐĂůůǇŵĂĚĞ͕ďĂƚƚĞƌǇͲƉŽǁĞƌĞĚĐŽŽŬƐƚŽǀĞ͕
ĐůĞĂŶͲďƵƌŶŝŶŐĨƵĞůƉĞůůĞƚƐĨƌŽŵƌĞĐǇĐůĞĚďŝŽŵĂƐƐ͕ĂŶĚĂďŝŽĐŚĂƌďƵǇďĂĐŬ
ƐǇƐƚĞŵƚŚĂƚĞŶŚĂŶĐĞƐƐŽŝůĂŶĚĐĂƉƚƵƌĞƐĐĂƌďŽŶ͘ǇĚŝƐƚƌŝďƵƚŝŶŐƚŚƌŽƵŐŚ
ůŽĐĂůŶĞƚǁŽƌŬƐĂŶĚĐŽŽƉĞƌĂƚŝǀĞƐ͕DĞŶƐƵƌĞƐŝƚƐĐůĞĂŶĐŽŽŬŝŶŐƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶ
ƌĞŵĂŝŶƐĂĨĨŽƌĚĂďůĞĂŶĚĂĐĐĞƐƐŝďůĞƚŽĐŽŵŵƵŶŝƚŝĞƐ͘
dƌĂĐƚŝŽŶ
DĂƌŬĞƚƐŝǌĞ͗dŚĞƚŽƚĂůĂĚĚƌĞƐƐĂďůĞŵĂƌŬĞƚĐŽŶƐŝƐƚƐŽĨϮϱŵŝůůŝŽŶ
ŚŽƵƐĞŚŽůĚƐ͘tŝƚŚŝŶƚŚŝƐ͕ƚŚĞƐĞƌǀŝĐĞĂďůĞĂǀĂŝůĂďůĞŵĂƌŬĞƚ;^DͿ
ŝŶĐůƵĚĞƐϳ͘ϱŵŝůůŝŽŶŚŽƵƐĞŚŽůĚƐ͘D͛ƐŐŽĂůŝƐƚŽƌĞĂĐŚϳϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ
ŚŽƵƐĞŚŽůĚƐ;ϭϬйŽĨ^DͿǁŝƚŚŝŶĨŝǀĞǇĞĂƌƐ͘
ZĞǀĞŶƵĞ͗ǀĂŝůĂďůĞƵƉŽŶƌĞƋƵĞƐƚ͘
DŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗DŚĂƐĂĐŚŝĞǀĞĚƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐŵŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗
x &ĂĐŝůŝƚǇĐĂƉĂďůĞŽĨƉƌŽĚƵĐŝŶŐϮϬϬĐŽŽŬƐƚŽǀĞƐͬĚĂǇ
x WĞůůĞƚůŝŶĞƉƌŽĚƵĐŝŶŐϭƚŽŶͬŚŽƵƌŽĨŚŝŐŚͲƋƵĂůŝƚǇĨƵĞů
x KǀĞƌϱ͕ϬϬϬĐůĞĂŶĐŽŽŬƐƚŽǀĞƐŚĂǀĞĂůƌĞĂĚǇďĞĞŶ ĚĞƉůŽǇĞĚ
x WĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉƐǁŝƚŚ^Es͕'/͕ĂŶĚĐŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇŽƌŐĂŶŝǌĂƚŝŽŶƐŝŶƚŚŝŽƉŝĂ
/ŶǀĞƐƚŵĞŶƚKƉƉŽƌƚƵŶŝƚǇ
DƐĞĞŬƐh^ ΨϮŵŝůůŝŽŶŝŶǀĞƐƚŵĞŶƚŝŶƚŚĞĨŽƌŵŽĨĞƋƵŝƚǇ͕ůŽĂŶ͕ŽƌĂ
ďůĞŶĚĞĚƐƚƌƵĐƚƵƌĞƚŽ͗
x ^ĐĂůĞŵĂŶƵĨĂĐƚƵƌŝŶŐĐĂƉĂĐŝƚǇ
x ǆƉĂŶĚŶĂƚŝŽŶĂůĚŝƐƚƌŝďƵƚŝŽŶĂŶĚĂĨƚĞƌͲƐĂůĞƐƐƵƉƉŽƌƚ
x ĞǀĞůŽƉWz'KĂŶĚ^KͲďĂƐĞĚĨŝŶĂŶĐŝŶŐƐǇƐƚĞŵƐ
x ŶŚĂŶĐĞŵŽŶŝƚŽƌŝŶŐĂŶĚĞǀĂůƵĂƚŝŽŶƐǇƐƚĞŵƐ
x ^ƚƌĞŶŐƚŚĞŶďƌĂŶĚǀŝƐŝďŝůŝƚǇĂŶĚƌƵƌĂůŵĂƌŬĞƚƉĞŶĞƚƌĂƚŝŽŶ
ƐƚĂďůŝƐŚĞĚ>ŽĐĂƚŝŽŶ
ϮϬϮϮ ƚŚŝŽƉŝĂ

^ĞĐƚŽƌ  ŵƉůŽǇĞĞƐ
ZĞŶĞǁĂďůĞ ϯϬ
ĞŶĞƌŐǇ
ĂƉŝƚĂůZĂŝƐĞĚ
h^ΨϰϰϬ͕ϬϬϬ
>ĞĂĚĞƌƐŚŝƉdĞĂŵ
WƌŽĨĞƐƐŽƌdƐĞŐĂǇĞEĞŐĂ͗&ŽƵŶĚĞƌ
ĂŶĚK
tŝƚŚŽǀĞƌϮϱǇĞĂƌƐŝŶĂĐĂĚĞŵŝĂ͕
ƌĞƐĞĂƌĐŚ͕ĂŶĚĐŽŶƐĞƌǀĂƚŝŽŶ͕WƌŽĨ͘
EĞŐĂŚĂƐďĞĞŶĂƉŝŽŶĞĞƌŝŶĐůĞĂŶ
ĞŶĞƌŐǇŝŶŶŽǀĂƚŝŽŶŝŶƚŚŝŽƉŝĂ
ŵĂŶKŵĞƌKŬĂƐŚ͗'ĞŶĞƌĂů
DĂŶĂŐĞƌ
ŵĂŶŚŽůĚƐĂŶDĨƌŽŵĚĚŝƐ
ďĂďĂDĞĚŝĐĂůĂŶĚƵƐŝŶĞƐƐ
ŽůůĞŐĞ͘,ĞŚĂƐĞǆƚĞŶƐŝǀĞ
ĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞŝŶƐƚƌĂƚĞŐŝĐƉůĂŶŶŝŶŐ
ĂŶĚŽƉĞƌĂƚŝŽŶĂůŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ͕ĂŶĚ
ĂƐƚƌŽŶŐĐŽŵŵŝƚŵĞŶƚƚŽ
ĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂůƐƚĞǁĂƌĚƐŚŝƉĂŶĚ
ǁŽŵĞŶ͛ƐĞŵƉŽǁĞƌŵĞŶƚ͘
WĂƐĐĂů&ƌĂŶŬĞŶ͗ŚŝĞĨWƌŽĚƵĐƚ
ĞƐŝŐŶĞƌ
WĂƐĐĂůŚŽůĚƐĂŵĂƐƚĞƌ͛ƐŝŶ
ŝŶƚĞŐƌĂƚĞĚƉƌŽĚƵĐƚĚĞƐŝŐŶĨƌŽŵdh
ĞůĨƚ͘,ŝƐĚĞƐŝŐŶůĞĂĚĞƌƐŚŝƉĞŶƐƵƌĞƐ
D͛ƐƉƌŽĚƵĐƚƐĂƌĞďŽƚŚƵƐĞƌͲ
ĨƌŝĞŶĚůǇĂŶĚŚŝŐŚƉĞƌĨŽƌŵŝŶŐ͕
ƐŝŐŶŝĨŝĐĂŶƚůǇƌĞĚƵĐŝŶŐĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐ
ĂŶĚŝŵƉƌŽǀŝŶŐĐŽŽŬƐƚŽǀĞ
ĞĨĨŝĐŝĞŶĐǇ͘
tĞďƐŝƚĞ
ĂŶĞŐĂĞŶĞƌŐŝĞƐŵĂŶƵĨĂĐƚƵƌŝŶŐ͘ŽƌŐ
ŽŶƚĂĐƚ
dƐĞŐĂǇĞEĞŐĂ
ƚƐĞŐĂǇĞ͘ŶĞŐĂΛŚĞĂůƚŚǇĨŝƌĞ͘ĐĐ
45
ŶĞŐĂŶĞƌŐŝĞƐDĂŶƵĨĂĐƚƵƌŝŶŐ
ǁǁǁ͘Wϰ'WĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉƐ͘ŽƌŐ
ďŽƵƚ
ƌƵƐƚĞĂ ŝƐĂĚǇŶĂŵŝĐƐƚĂƌƚƵƉƉŝŽŶĞĞƌŝŶŐĂĚǀĂŶĐĞŵĞŶƚƐŝŶĂƋƵĂĐƵůƚƵƌĞ
ƚĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐǇďǇĚĞƉůŽǇŝŶŐŝƚƐƉƌŽƉƌŝĞƚĂƌǇ ƐŽůĂƌͲƉŽǁĞƌĞĚĐŽͲĞƌĂƚŽƌƐĂŶĚ/Žd
ŵŽŶŝƚŽƌŝŶŐƐǇƐƚĞŵƐ ƚŚĂƚ ƐŝŐŶŝĨŝĐĂŶƚůǇƌĞĚƵĐĞŽƉĞƌĂƚŝŽŶĂůĐŽƐƚƐĂŶĚŐƌĞĞŶŚŽƵƐĞ
ŐĂƐ ;','Ϳ ĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐǁŚŝůĞďŽŽƐƚŝŶŐĨĂƌŵƉƌŽĚƵĐƚŝǀŝƚǇ͘tŝƚŚĂƐƚƌŽŶŐĨŽĐƵƐŽŶ
ŝŶŶŽǀĂƚŝŽŶ͕ƚŚĞĐŽŵƉĂŶǇĚĞǀĞůŽƉƐƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďůĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐƚŚĂƚĞŶŚĂŶĐĞƌĞƐŽƵƌĐĞ
ĞĨĨŝĐŝĞŶĐǇĂŶĚĚƌŝǀĞĞĐŽͲĨƌŝĞŶĚůǇƉƌĂĐƚŝĐĞƐǁŝƚŚŝŶƚŚĞĂƋƵĂĐƵůƚƵƌĞŝŶĚƵƐƚƌǇ͘
dŚĞŚĂůůĞŶŐĞ
dŚĞĂƋƵĂĐƵůƚƵƌĞ ŝŶĚƵƐƚƌǇĨĂĐĞƐĐƌŝƚŝĐĂůĐŚĂůůĞŶŐĞƐƚŚĂƚůŝŵŝƚƉƌŽĚƵĐƚŝǀŝƚǇ͕
ŝŶĐůƵĚŝŶŐƐŚƌŝŵƉŵŽƌƚĂůŝƚǇĐĂƵƐĞĚďǇƉŽŽƌǁĂƚĞƌƋƵĂůŝƚǇŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚůĞĂĚŝŶŐƚŽ
ƵŶĐŽŶƚƌŽůůĞĚĚŝƐƐŽůǀĞĚŽǆǇŐĞŶůĞǀĞůƐ͕ĂŶĚŚŝŐŚŽƉĞƌĂƚŝŽŶĂůĐŽƐƚƐƚŚĂƚĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůůǇ
ĐŽŶƐƚƌĂŝŶ ƐŚƌŝŵƉ ĨĂƌŵĞƌƐ͘
dŚĞ^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶ
dŚĞĐŽͲĞƌĂƚŽƌƵƐĞƐĂĚǀĂŶĐĞĚ͕ĞĐŽͲĨƌŝĞŶĚůǇƚĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐǇǁŝƚŚ/ĂŶĚ/Žd
ĐĂƉĂďŝůŝƚŝĞƐƚŽŽƉƚŝŵŝǌĞĂƋƵĂĐƵůƚƵƌĞ͘dŚĞ//DŽŶŝƚŽƌŝŶŐΘŽŶƚƌŽůůŝŶŐ^ǇƐƚĞŵ
ĂůůŽǁƐĨĂƌŵĞƌƐƚŽƚƌĂĐŬĂŶĚŵĂŶĂŐĞƉŽŶĚĐŽŶĚŝƚŝŽŶƐƌĞŵŽƚĞůǇǁŝƚŚƐŵĂƌƚ
ƐĞŶƐŽƌƐ͘DĞĂŶǁŚŝůĞ͕ƚŚĞ^ŵĂƌƚŶĞƌŐǇ^ǇƐƚĞŵŵĞĂƐƵƌĞƐĞĨĨŝĐŝĞŶĐǇĂŶĚĞŶĞƌŐǇ
ƐĂǀŝŶŐƐ͕ŚĞůƉŝŶŐĨĂƌŵĞƌƐŵĂǆŝŵŝǌĞƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇǁŝƚŚƌƵƐƚĞĂΖƐƚĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐǇ͘
dƌĂĐƚŝŽŶ
DĂƌŬĞƚƐŝǌĞ͗dŚĞ^ŽƵƚŚĞĂƐƚƐŝĂŶ ĂƋƵĂĐƵůƚƵƌĞŵĂƌŬĞƚ ŝƐĂŶĞƐƚŝŵĂƚĞĚh^Ψϰϭ
ďŝůůŝŽŶ͘dŚĞ ƐĞƌǀŝĐĞĂďůĞŽďƚĂŝŶĂďůĞŵĂƌŬĞƚ;^KDͿ ŝƐh^ ΨϭϬďŝůůŝŽŶ ŝŶ/ŶĚŽŶĞƐŝĂ͘
ƌƵƐƚĞĂĂŝŵƐƚŽĐĂƉƚƵƌĞƚŚŝƐƐĞŐŵĞŶƚƚŚƌŽƵŐŚŝƚƐĐŽͲĞƌĂƚŽƌƚĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐǇ͘dŚŝƐ
ƚĂƌŐĞƚĞĚĂƉƉƌŽĂĐŚĂĚĚƌĞƐƐĞƐĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂůĐŚĂůůĞŶŐĞƐǁŚŝůĞůĂǇŝŶŐƚŚĞ
ŐƌŽƵŶĚǁŽƌŬĨŽƌĞǆƉĂŶƐŝŽŶĂĐƌŽƐƐ^ŽƵƚŚĞĂƐƚƐŝĂ͘
ZĞǀĞŶƵĞ͗ 'ĞŶĞƌĂƚĞĚh^ΨϭϮϬ͕ϬϬϬŝŶƌĞǀĞŶƵĞŝŶϮϬϮϯ͘
DŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗ƌƵƐƚĞĂ ŚĂƐĂĐŚŝĞǀĞĚƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐŵŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗
x >ĂƵŶĐŚĞĚĐŽĞƌĂƚŽƌĂŶĚ/ŽdƐǇƐƚĞŵƐ
x ŽŽƐƚĞĚ ƐŚƌŝŵƉƉƌŽĚƵĐƚŝǀŝƚǇďǇϮϬϬй
x ZĞĚƵĐĞĚ ŽƉĞƌĂƚŝŽŶĂůĐŽƐƚƐ ďǇƵƉƚŽ ϴϬй
x ZĞĚƵĐĞĚ','ďǇϮϯ͕ϬϰϰKЇ
/ŶǀĞƐƚŵĞŶƚKƉƉŽƌƚƵŶŝƚǇ
ƵƌƌĞŶƚůǇƌĂŝƐŝŶŐ h^ ΨϭŵŝůůŝŽŶŝŶ ĞƋƵŝƚǇĨƵŶĚŝŶŐ ƚŽƐĐĂůĞƉƌŽĚƵĐƚŝŽŶ͕ĞŶŚĂŶĐĞ
ZΘĨŽƌ/ĂŶĚ/ŽdƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐ͕ĂŶĚĞǆƉĂŶĚŵĂƌŬĞƚƌĞĂĐŚ͘
ƐƚĂďůŝƐŚĞĚ>ŽĐĂƚŝŽŶ
ϮϬϮϮ /ŶĚŽŶĞƐŝĂ

^ĞĐƚŽƌ ŵƉůŽǇĞĞƐ
ZĞŶĞǁĂďůĞ ϳ
ĞŶĞƌŐǇ
ĂƉŝƚĂůZĂŝƐĞĚ
ŽŽƚƐƚƌĂƉƉŝŶŐ ďƵƚĂůƌĞĂĚǇ
ŐĞŶĞƌĂƚƵŶŐ ƌĞǀĞŶƵĞ
>ĞĂĚĞƌƐŚŝƉdĞĂŵ
ZŽŝŬŚĂŶĂƚƵŶEĂĨŝ͛ĂŚ͗&ŽƵŶĚĞƌĂŶĚ
K
KǀĞƌϱǇĞĂƌƐŽĨĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞŝŶ
ŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚĂŶĚŝŶŶŽǀĂƚŝŽŶ
ZŝǌĂůĂƵĚŝŶ^ǇĂŚ͗ŽͲĨŽƵŶĚĞƌ ĂŶĚ
sW ŽĨƚĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐǇ
KǀĞƌϮϬǇĞĂƌƐŽĨĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞŝŶ/͕
/ŽdĂŶĚ^ŽĨƚǁĂƌĞĨŝĞůĚƐ
ŝĂŶDĂƌƚŚĂ͗ĞƉƵƚǇ'DĂŶĚ
ĂƌďŽŶWƌŽũĞĐƚDĂŶĂŐĞƌ
KǀĞƌϱǇĞĂƌƐŽĨĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞŝŶĂƐƐĞƚ
ŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚĐƌĞĚŝƚĂŶĚĚŝŐŝƚĂů
ďƵƐŝŶĞƐƐůĞĐƚƵƌĞƌ
tĞďƐŝƚĞ
ǁǁǁ͘ĐƌƵƐƚĞĂ͘ŝĚ
ƌƵƐƚĞĂͲ/ŶĚŽŶĞƐŝĂ
ŽŶƚĂĐƚ
ŝĂŶDĂƌƚŚĂ
ĚŝĂŶŵĂƌƚŚĂĂΛŐŵĂŝů͘ĐŽŵ
ƌƵƐƚĞĂ
46
ďŽƵƚ
dĂŬĂǌƵƌŝ ŝƐĂĚĞƐŝŐŶĂŶĚŝŶŶŽǀĂƚŝŽŶĐŽŵƉĂŶǇĨŽĐƵƐĞĚŽŶĐƌĞĂƚŝŶŐƐŵĂƌƚ
ďƵŝůĚŝŶŐƉƌŽĚƵĐƚƐƚŚĂƚĞŶŚĂŶĐĞĐůŝŵĂƚĞƌĞƐŝůŝĞŶĐĞ͘
dŚĞŚĂůůĞŶŐĞ
ůŝŵĂƚĞĐŚĂŶŐĞĚĞŵĂŶĚƐĂŐůŽďĂůƐŚŝĨƚŝŶƚŚĞǁĂǇǁĞďƵŝůĚ͘ǇϮϬϱϬ͕ĂŶ
ĞƐƚŝŵĂƚĞĚϰϬϬŵŝůůŝŽŶƉĞŽƉůĞŝŶĂƐƚĨƌŝĐĂǁŝůůƌĞƋƵŝƌĞƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďůĞŚŽƵƐŝŶŐ
ƚŽĨƵůĨŝůůĂƐŝŐŶŝĨŝĐĂŶƚŚŽƵƐŝŶŐĚĞĨŝĐŝƚ͘ƵƌƌĞŶƚĐŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶŵĂƚĞƌŝĂůƐĨĂůů
ƐŚŽƌƚŝŶƌĞƐŝůŝĞŶĐĞ͕ĞŶĞƌŐǇĞĨĨŝĐŝĞŶĐǇĂŶĚĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂůƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇ͘
dŚĞ^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶ
ůŝŵĂƚŝůĞΡ ŝƐĂƉĂƚĞŶƚƉĞŶĚŝŶŐ͕ŵƵůƚŝĨƵŶĐƚŝŽŶĂůƌŽŽĨŝŶŐĂŶĚĐůĂĚĚŝŶŐƐǇƐƚĞŵ
ŵĂĚĞĨƌŽŵƌĞĐǇĐůĞĚƉŽůǇŵĞƌƐ͘/ƚƉƌŽǀŝĚĞƐĞŶŚĂŶĐĞĚŝŶƐƵůĂƚŝŽŶ͕ƐĂĨĞ
ƌĂŝŶǁĂƚĞƌŚĂƌǀĞƐƚŝŶŐ͕ĂŶĚŝŶƚĞŐƌĂƚĞƐƐŽůĂƌĞŶĞƌŐǇ͘/ƚŝƐĞĂƐǇƚŽŝŶƐƚĂůůĂŶĚ
ŝĚĞĂůĨŽƌƉĞƌŵĂŶĞŶƚĂŶĚƚĞŵƉŽƌĂƌǇďƵŝůĚŝŶŐƐ͘dŚƌŽƵŐŚĂŶĂƐƐĞƚͲůŝŐŚƚŵŽĚĞů͕
dĂŬĂǌƵƌŝ ůĞǀĞƌĂŐĞƐ ƐƚƌŽŶŐƉĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉƐŝŶ ŝƚƐ ǀĂůƵĞĐŚĂŝŶƚŽƐĐĂůĞƌĂƉŝĚůǇ
ĂĐƌŽƐƐƌĞŐŝŽŶƐƵƐŝŶŐĂůŝĐĞŶƐŝŶŐŵŽĚĞů͘
dƌĂĐƚŝŽŶ
DĂƌŬĞƚƐŝǌĞ͗dŚĞŐůŽďĂůĐŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶŵĂƌŬĞƚǁĂƐh^Ψϱ͕ϰϭϮďŝůůŝŽŶŝŶϮϬϮϭ
ĂŶĚďǇϮϬϯϭ͕ƉƌŽũĞĐƚĞĚƚŽh^Ψϭϭ͕ϮϭϭďŝůůŝŽŶ͘dŚĞƐĞƌǀŝĐĞĂďůĞĂǀĂŝůĂďůĞ
ŵĂƌŬĞƚŝŶ<ĞŶǇĂŐƌŽǁƐĂƚĐŽŵƉŽƵŶĚĂŶŶƵĂůŐƌŽǁƚŚƌĂƚĞ ŽĨϳ͘ϭй͘dŚĞ
ƐĞƌǀŝĐĞĂďůĞŽďƚĂŝŶĂďůĞŵĂƌŬĞƚŝƐh^Ψϰ͘ϯŵŝůůŝŽŶŝŶƌĞǀĞŶƵĞƐĨŽƌϮϬϮϱ͘
ZĞǀĞŶƵĞ͗dĂŬĂǌƵƌŝŚĂƐŐĞŶĞƌĂƚĞĚh^ΨϱϬ͕ϬϬϬŝŶƌĞǀĞŶƵĞŝŶƚŚĞĐƵƌƌĞŶƚ
ĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůǇĞĂƌ͘ ĞƚǁĞĞŶϮϬϮϱʹ ϮϬϮϳ͕ƚŚĞƐƚĂƌƚƵƉĞŶǀŝƐŝŽŶƐŽǀĞƌϮŵŝůůŝŽŶ
ůŝŵĂƚŝůĞΡ ĂĐƌŽƐƐŬĞǇŵĂƌŬĞƚƐ͕ůĞǀĞƌĂŐŝŶŐƐƚƌĂƚĞŐŝĐƉĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉƐĂŶĚ
ůŝĐĞŶƐŝŶŐ͘ /ƚƐƉƌŽũĞĐƚĞĚƌĞǀĞŶƵĞŝƐŽǀĞƌh^ Ψϯϱ ŵŝůůŝŽŶ ďǇϮϬϮϲƚŚƌŽƵŐŚ
ƉƌŽĚƵĐƚƐĂůĞƐĂŶĚůŝĐĞŶƐŝŶŐĂŐƌĞĞŵĞŶƚƐ͘
DŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗dĂŬĂǌƵƌŝ ŚĂƐĂĐŚŝĞǀĞĚƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐŵŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗
x ŽŵŵĞƌĐŝĂůŝǌĂƚŝŽŶ ĂŶĚ ĐůŽƐŝŶŐŽĨϳϬϬнƐƋŵŝŶƐĂůĞƐŽĨůŝŵĂƚŝůĞdDĂŶĚϵϬ
<tŝŶƚĞŐƌĂƚĞĚƐŽůĂƌƚŽĚĂƚĞ͘
x ŽůůĂďŽƌĂƚŝŽŶƐǁŝƚŚ<ǁĂůĞZĞĐǇĐůŝŶŐĞŶƚƌĞĂŶĚDƌ͘'ƌĞĞŶĨƌŝĐĂĨŽƌ
ƌĞĐǇĐůĞĚŵĂƚĞƌŝĂůƐ͘
x WƌŽĚƵĐƚĚĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚĂŶĚƚĞƐƚŝŶŐǁŝƚŚƉĂƌƚŶĞƌƐ^&ŝŶ'ĞƌŵĂŶǇ͕'ĂďƌŝĞů
ŚĞŵŝĞŝŶƵƐƚƌŝĂ͕^'^ŝŶŚŝŶĂ ĂŶĚ ƵƌŽƉĞ͕ĂŶĚ/ƐƚŝƚƵƚŽ'ŝŽƌĚĂŶŽŝŶ/ƚĂůǇ͘
x dŽůůŵĂŶƵĨĂĐƚƵƌŝŶŐƐĞƚƵƉǁŝƚŚůĞĂĚŝŶŐŝŶũĞĐƚŝŽŶŵŽůĚŝŶŐĐŽŵƉĂŶǇŝŶĂƐƚ
ĨƌŝĐĂǁŝƚŚϰϬϬϬƐƋ͘ŵ ŝŶ ŵŽŶƚŚůǇƉƌŽĚƵĐƚŝŽŶ͘
/ŶǀĞƐƚŵĞŶƚKƉƉŽƌƚƵŶŝƚǇ
dĂŬĂǌƵƌŝŝƐƐĞĞŬŝŶŐƵƉƚŽh^Ψϭ͘ϱŵŝůůŝŽŶŝŶŐƌĂŶƚƐ͕ĚĞďƚĂŶĚ ĞƋƵŝƚǇŝŶϮϬϮϱ͗
x h^ΨϰϱϬ͕ϬϬϬƚŽƐĐĂůĞŝŶĂƐƚĨƌŝĐĂĂŶĚ ĂĐĐĞůĞƌĂƚĞŵĂƌŬĞƚĞŶƚƌǇŝŶ
ĂĚĚŝƚŝŽŶĂůŵĂƚƵƌĞŵĂƌŬĞƚƐ͘
x h^ΨϭϱϬ͕ϬϬϬ ĨŽƌĂĚĚŝƚŝŽŶĂůƉƌŽĚƵĐƚĚĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚĂŶĚĐĞƌƚŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶƐ͘
x h^ΨϮϬϬ͕ϬϬϬĨŽƌĚŝƌĞĐƚŵĂƌŬĞƚŝŶŐ ĂŶĚĐŚĂŶŶĞůĚĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ͘
x h^ΨϭϬϬ͕ϬϬϬŝŶĐĂƉĞǆŝŶǀĞƐƚŵĞŶƚƐĨŽƌĐŽƐƚŽƉƚŝŵŝǌĂƚŝŽŶ͘
x h^ΨϰϱϬ͕ϬϬϬƚŽŚŝƌĞĂĐŽƌĞƚĞĂŵŝŶƚŚĞh^ ĂŶĚ h͕ĂŶĚƚĞĂŵĚĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ
ŝŶĂƐƚĨƌŝĐĂ͘
x ΨϭϱϬ͕ϬϬϬĨŽƌůĞŐĂů ĂŶĚůŝĐĞŶƐŝŶŐ ĨĞĞƐ͘
ƐƚĂďůŝƐŚĞĚ>ŽĐĂƚŝŽŶ
ϮϬϮϯ  <ĞŶǇĂ
ϮϬϭϵh<
^ĞĐƚŽƌƐ ŵƉůŽǇĞĞƐ
ZĞŶĞǁĂďůĞϱ
ĞŶĞƌŐǇ
ĂƉŝƚĂůZĂŝƐĞĚ
h^ΨϯϱϬ͕ϬϬϬŝŶŐƌĂŶƚƐ
h^ΨϭϬϬ͕ϬϬϬĨŽƵŶĚĞƌ͛ƐĞƋƵŝƚǇ
>ĞĂĚĞƌƐŚŝƉdĞĂŵ
DĂƌŝĂ^ĐŚůĞƐŝŶŐĞƌ͗KĂŶĚĐŽͲ
ĨŽƵŶĚĞƌ
ĞƐ ŝŶ ƉƌŽĚƵĐƚĚĞƐŝŐŶ͕DŝŶ
ŝŶĚƵƐƚƌŝĂůĚĞƐŝŐŶ͘ZĞĐǇĐůŝŶŐĂŶĚ
ƉƌŽĚƵĐƚĚĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚĞǆƉĞƌƚŝŶƚŚĞ
h^͕hĂŶĚĨƌŝĐĂ͘
ĚĞů<ĂƐƐĞŵ͗ĞƐŝŐŶĚŝƌĞĐƚŽƌĂŶĚĐŽͲ
ĨŽƵŶĚĞƌ
ĞƐ ŝŶƉƌŽĚƵĐƚĚĞƐŝŐŶ͘/ŶĚƵƐƚƌŝĂů
ĞƐŝŐŶĞƌǁŝƚŚϮϬнǇĞĂƌƐŝŶƉƌŽĚƵĐƚ
ĚĞƐŝŐŶŝŶƚŚĞhĂŶĚ>ĂƚŝŶŵĞƌŝĐĂ͘
ŚƌŝƐƚŽƉŚĞƌ,ŽƌŶŽƌ͗
ƵƐŝŶĞƐƐĚĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚĂŶĚĐŽͲĨŽƵŶĚĞƌ
^ĐŝŶŵĞĚŝĐĂůĂŶƚŚƌŽƉŽůŽŐǇ͘
ZĞŶĞǁĂďůĞĞŶĞƌŐǇĞŶƚƌĞƉƌĞŶĞƵƌǁŝƚŚ
ϮϬнǇĞĂƌƐŽĨĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞŝŶƚŚĞh^͕h
ĂŶĚ ĨƌŝĐĂ͘
ĞŚƌĂůŝ͗KK
D/dĞŶŐŝŶĞĞƌ͕DǁŝƚŚϭϬнǇĞĂƌƐŽĨ
ĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞŝŶĐŽŶƐƚƌƵĐƚŝŽŶĂŶĚ ƉůĂƐƚŝĐƐ
ŝŶƚŚĞh ĂŶĚƐŝĂ
tĞďƐŝƚĞ
ǁǁǁ͘ƚĂŬĂǌƵƌŝ͘ĐŽŵ
ƚĂŬĂǌƵƌŝͲůƚĚ
ŽŶƚĂĐƚ
DĂƌŝĂ^ĐŚůĞƐŝŶŐĞƌ
ŵĂƌŝĂΛƚĂŬĂǌƵƌŝ͘ĐŽŵ
ŝŶĨŽΛƚĂŬĂǌƵƌŝ͘ĐŽŵ
dĂŬĂǌƵƌŝ
ǁǁǁ͘Wϰ'WĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉƐ͘ŽƌŐ
47
ďŽƵƚ
<ƵůƵĐŽͲƐĞƌǀŝĐĞƐŝƐƐĞƚƚŽƌĞǀŽůƵƚŝŽŶŝǌĞǁĂƐƚĞŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚŝŶ^ŽƵƚŚĨƌŝĐĂ͘
^ƚĂƌƚŝŶŐǁŝƚŚĐŽŶǀĞƌƚŝŶŐŽƌŐĂŶŝĐĂŶĚůŝƋƵŝĚǁĂƐƚĞ ŝŶƚŽĨĞĞĚƐƚŽĐŬƐĨŽƌďŝŽĨƵĞůƐ
ĂŶĚďŝŽĞŶĞƌŐǇ͕ƚŚĞĐŽŵƉĂŶǇƐĞĞŬƐƚŽĚŝƐƌƵƉƚƚƌĂĚŝƚŝŽŶĂůŵŽĚĞůƐŽĨǁĂƐƚĞ
ŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚƚŚƌŽƵŐŚĂƐŵĂƌƚĚŝŐŝƚĂůƉůĂƚĨŽƌŵƚŚĂƚ ĚŝǀĞƌƚƐǁĂƐƚĞƚŽ ŝƚƐ
ƉƌŽĐĞƐƐŝŶŐŚƵďƐ ĂŶĚ ĐŽŶǀĞƌƚƐŝƚŝŶƚŽĞŶĞƌŐǇ͘/ƚĂůƐŽŽĨĨĞƌƐ ĐĂƌďŽŶĐƌĞĚŝƚƐ
ƚŚƌŽƵŐŚŝƚƐŐƌĞĞŶĐƌĞĚŝƚŝŶĐĞŶƚŝǀĞƐƉƌŽŐƌĂŵ͘
dŚĞŚĂůůĞŶŐĞ
^ŽƵƚŚĨƌŝĐĂŐĞŶĞƌĂƚĞƐϭϮϮŵŝůůŝŽŶƚŽŶƐŽĨǁĂƐƚĞĂŶŶƵĂůůǇ ĂŶĚ ŽŶůǇϭϬйŝƐ
ƌĞĐǇĐůĞĚ͘tĂƐƚĞƐǇƐƚĞŵƐƌĞŵĂŝŶůŝŶĞĂƌ͕ĂŶĚůĂŶĚĨŝůůƐĂƌĞŽǀĞƌĨůŽǁŝŶŐ͘dŚĞ^ŽƵƚŚ
ĨƌŝĐĂŶĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚŽĨŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂůĨĨĂŝƌƐƉůĂŶƐƚŽďĂŶĂůůŽƌŐĂŶŝĐŵĂƚĞƌŝĂů
ĨƌŽŵůĂŶĚĨŝůůƐďǇϮϬϮϳ͘  ƚƌĂŶƐŝƚŝŽŶĨƌŽŵƵŶƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďůĞůŝŶĞĂƌǁĂƐƚĞƐǇƐƚĞŵƐƚŽ
ŵŽƌĞĐŝƌĐƵůĂƌĞĐŽŶŽŵǇƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐ ŝƐŶĞĞĚĞĚ͕ďƵƚƐƵĐĐĞƐƐĨƵůƚĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐŝĞƐĂŶĚ
ƉƌŽũĞĐƚƐĂƌĞƐĐĂƌĐĞŝŶ^ŽƵƚŚĨƌŝĐĂ͘
dŚĞ ^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶ
<ƵůƵŝƐƚƌĂŶƐĨŽƌŵŝŶŐǁĂƐƚĞŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚďǇƚĂĐŬůŝŶŐĐŽŵƉůĞǆ͕ƉƌĞǀŝŽƵƐůǇ
ƵŶƚƌĞĂƚĂďůĞǁĂƐƚĞƐƚƌĞĂŵƐ͘/ƚƐŝŶŶŽǀĂƚŝǀĞĨĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐĂŶĚĂĚǀĂŶĐĞĚƐĞƉĂƌĂƚŝŽŶ
ƚĞĐŚŶŝƋƵĞƐĐŽŶǀĞƌƚǁĂƐƚĞŝŶƚŽďŝŽĨƵĞůĂŶĚďŝŽŐĂƐĨĞĞĚƐƚŽĐŬƐ͘tŝƚŚƐĞĞĚ
ĨƵŶĚŝŶŐƐĞĐƵƌĞĚĂŶĚĨŝƌƐƚͲƉŚĂƐĞŽƉĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐůĂƵŶĐŚĞĚ͕<ƵůƵŝƐƉƌŽǀŝŶŐŐůŽďĂů
ĚĞŵĂŶĚĨŽƌŝƚƐĐůĞĂŶĞŶĞƌŐǇƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐ͘ĚŝŐŝƚĂůƉůĂƚĨŽƌŵŝƐŝŶĚĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚƚŽ
ŚĞůƉǁĂƐƚĞŐĞŶĞƌĂƚŽƌƐĨŝŶĚďĞƚƚĞƌĂůƚĞƌŶĂƚŝǀĞƐƚŽůĂŶĚĨŝůů͘
dƌĂĐƚŝŽŶ
DĂƌŬĞƚ^ŝǌĞ͗^ŽƵƚŚĨƌŝĐĂ͛ƐƚŽƚĂůĂĚĚƌĞƐƐĂďůĞŵĂƌŬĞƚĨŽƌŽƌŐĂŶŝĐǁĂƐƚĞŝƐ
ĂƉƉƌŽǆŝŵĂƚĞůǇϯϬ ŵŝůůŝŽŶƚŽŶƐĂŶŶƵĂůůǇ͘ůƚŚŽƵŐŚƉƌĞĐŝƐĞĚĂƚĂŽŶƚŚĞ
ƐĞƌǀŝĐĞĂďůĞĂǀĂŝůĂďůĞŵĂƌŬĞƚŝƐůŝŵŝƚĞĚ͕<ƵůƵĞƐƚŝŵĂƚĞƐƚŚĂƚďǇƐĞĐƵƌŝŶŐĂϲϬй
ƐŚĂƌĞŝŶ'ĂƵƚĞŶŐĂŶĚƚŚĞtĞƐƚĞƌŶĂƉĞ͕ŝƚƐƐĞƌǀŝĐĞĂďůĞŽďƚĂŝŶĂďůĞŵĂƌŬĞƚ
;^KDͿĐŽƵůĚƌĞĂĐŚĂƌŽƵŶĚϴ͘ϴ ŵŝůůŝŽŶƚŽŶƐŽĨŽƌŐĂŶŝĐǁĂƐƚĞƉĞƌǇĞĂƌ͘ƵƌƌĞŶƚůǇ͕
<ƵůƵĂĐĐĞƐƐĞƐůĞƐƐƚŚĂŶϭй ŽĨƚŚŝƐ^KD͕ƵŶĚĞƌƐĐŽƌŝŶŐƐŝŐŶŝĨŝĐĂŶƚŐƌŽǁƚŚ
ƉŽƚĞŶƚŝĂů͘
ZĞǀĞŶƵĞ͗h^ΨϮ͘ϴϱŵŝůůŝŽŶƚŽĚĂƚĞ͖ƉƌŽũĞĐƚĞĚƚŽŐƌŽǁϴϭйǇĞĂƌŽŶǇĞĂƌĂŶĚ
ƌĞĂĐŚh^ΨϴŵŝůůŝŽŶǁŝƚŚŝŶƚŚĞŶĞǆƚƚǁŽǇĞĂƌƐ͘
DŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗<ƵůƵŚĂƐƐƵĐĐĞƐƐĨƵůůǇĂĐŚŝĞǀĞĚƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐŵŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗
x ZĂŝƐĞĚƐĞĞĚĐĂƉŝƚĂůƚŽďƵŝůĚƚŚĞĨŝƌƐƚƉƌŽƚŽƚǇƉĞĐŽŵŵĞƌĐŝĂůƉůĂŶƚ͘
x ŽŵƉůĞƚĞĚĂŶĚŽƉĞƌĂƚĞĚ Ă ĨŝƌƐƚͲƉŚĂƐĞĐŽŵŵĞƌĐŝĂůƉůĂŶƚ͕ǁŚŝĐŚƚƌĂŶƐĨŽƌŵƐ
ǁĂƐƚĞŝŶƚŽƌĞŶĞǁĂďůĞĞŶĞƌŐǇ ĨĞĞĚƐƚŽĐŬƐ͘
x ŝǀĞƌƚĞĚ ŽǀĞƌϮϱ͕ϬϬϬ ƚŽŶƐŽĨǁĂƐƚĞĨƌŽŵůĂŶĚĨŝůůƚŽĚĂƚĞ͘
x ǆƉŽƌƚĞĚŽǀĞƌϭϮϬƚŽŶƐŽĨ ĨĞĞĚƐƚŽĐŬƐ ĨŽƌďŝŽĨƵĞůƐ ƉĞƌŵŽŶƚŚ͘
/ŶǀĞƐƚŵĞŶƚKƉƉŽƌƚƵŶŝƚǇ
<ƵůƵŝƐĐƵƌƌĞŶƚůǇƐĞĞŬŝŶŐĂŶĂĚĚŝƚŝŽŶĂůh^Ψϭ͘ϲϱ ŵŝůůŝŽŶŝŶŝƚƐŶĞǆƚƌŽƵŶĚŽĨ
ĨƵŶĚŝŶŐƚŽƐĐĂůĞĂŶĚƌĂŵƉƵƉŽƉĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐŶĂƚŝŽŶĂůůǇ͕ĂŶĚƚŚĞƌĞĂĨƚĞƌ h^ Ψϱ͘ϱ
ŵŝůůŝŽŶƚŽƐĐĂůĞƚŚĞďƵƐŝŶĞƐƐƚĞŶĨŽůĚ͘
ƐƚĂďůŝƐŚĞĚ >ŽĐĂƚŝŽŶ
ϮϬϮϭ ^ŽƵƚŚĨƌŝĐĂ
^ĞĐƚŽƌƐ ŵƉůŽǇĞĞƐ
ZĞŶĞǁĂďůĞϰϬ
ĞŶĞƌŐǇ
ĂƉŝƚĂůZĂŝƐĞĚ
h^Ψϱϲϲ͕ϬϬϬ
>ĞĂĚĞƌƐŚŝƉdĞĂŵ
ƌ͘WŝĞƚĞƌǀĂŶ,ĞǇŶŝŶŐĞŶ͗K
ϭϲнǇĞĂƌŽĨĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞŝŶ
ƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇ͘WŚŝŶŝŶŶŽǀĂƚŝŽŶĂŶĚ
ƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇ͘
,ĂŶŶĞƐ:ŽŶŬĞƌ͗>ĞĂĚdĞĐŚŶŝĐŝĂŶĂŶĚ
,ƵďŽƉĞƌĂƚŝŽŶƐŵĂŶĂŐĞƌ
YƵĂůŝĨŝĞĚĞůĞĐƚƌŝĐŝĂŶĂŶĚĂƵƚŽŵĂƚŝŽŶ
ƐƉĞĐŝĂůŝƐƚ
dŚĞƌĞƐĂ>ĞZŽƵǆ͗&ŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůDĂŶĂŐĞƌ
ϮϰǇĞĂƌƐŽĨĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞŝŶĨŝŶĂŶĐĞ
tĞďƐŝƚĞ
ŚƚƚƉƐ͗ͬͬŬƵůƵĞĐŽƐĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ͘ĐŽ͘ǌĂ
<ƵůƵ ĐŽͲƐĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ
ŽŶƚĂĐƚ
WŝĞƚĞƌǀĂŶ,ĞǇŶŝŶŐĞŶ͕K
ƉŝĞƚĞƌΛƐƵƐƚŶĞƚ͘ĐŽŵ
нϮϳ;ϬͿϳϵϮϵϰϰϯϵϬ
<ƵůƵĐŽͲƐĞƌǀŝĐĞƐ
ǁǁǁ͘Wϰ'WĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉƐ͘ŽƌŐ
48
ďŽƵƚ
ůƚĞƌŶƃŝƐĂƉŝŽŶĞĞƌŝŶŐĐůŝŵĂƚĞƚĞĐŚƐƚĂƌƚƵƉŚĞĂĚƋƵĂƌƚĞƌĞĚŝŶ^ŝŶŐĂƉŽƌĞǁŝƚŚ
ZΘĂŶĚŵĂŶƵĨĂĐƚƵƌŝŶŐŝŶsŝĞƚŶĂŵ͘/ƚ ĚĞǀĞůŽƉĞĚƚŚĞǁŽƌůĚ͛ƐĨŝƌƐƚƐĂŶĚͲďĂƐĞĚ
ƚŚĞƌŵĂůďĂƚƚĞƌǇĨŽƌĂŐƌŝĐƵůƚƵƌĂůĂŶĚŝŶĚƵƐƚƌŝĂůĂƉƉůŝĐĂƚŝŽŶƐ͕ĚĞůŝǀĞƌŝŶŐŚŝŐŚͲ
ƚĞŵƉĞƌĂƚƵƌĞŚĞĂƚ;ϯϬϬʹϲϬϬΣͿĂƚƚŚĞůŽǁĞƐƚĐŽƐƚŝŶƚŚĞŵĂƌŬĞƚ͘/ƚƐƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶ
ĐƵƚƐĨŽƐƐŝůĨƵĞůƵƐĞďǇƵƉƚŽϱϬйĂŶĚŚĂƐďĞĞŶǀĂůŝĚĂƚĞĚƚŚƌŽƵŐŚƐƵĐĐĞƐƐĨƵů
ƉŝůŽƚŝŶƐƚĂůůĂƚŝŽŶƐǁŝƚŚŐůŽďĂůůĞĂĚĞƌƐůŝŬĞWĞƉƐŝŽĂŶĚDŽŶĚĞůĞǌ͘
dŚĞŚĂůůĞŶŐĞ
ϯϰйŽĨŐůŽďĂůŐƌĞĞŶŚŽƵƐĞŐĂƐ;','ͿĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐĐŽŵĞĨƌŽŵŝŶĚƵƐƚƌŝĂůŚĞĂƚĂŶĚ
ƉŽǁĞƌ͘dŚĞ/ŶƚĞƌŶĂƚŝŽŶĂůŶĞƌŐǇŐĞŶĐǇƌĞƉŽƌƚƐƚŚĂƚŚĞĂƚĂĐĐŽƵŶƚƐĨŽƌϱϬйŽĨ
ŐůŽďĂůĞŶĞƌŐǇƵƐĞĂŶĚϰϬйŽĨKЇĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶ͘ĚĚŝƚŝŽŶĂůůǇ͕ƚŚĞĞŶƚĞƌĨŽƌ
ůŝŵĂƚĞĂŶĚŶĞƌŐǇ^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐƐƚĂƚĞƐƚŚĂƚϳϰйŽĨŝŶĚƵƐƚƌŝĂůĞŶĞƌŐǇŝƐĚĞƌŝǀĞĚ
ĨƌŽŵŚĞĂƚ͕ǁŝƚŚϳϱйŽĨŝƚƐƚŝůůƌĞůŝĂŶƚŽŶĨŽƐƐŝůĨƵĞůƐ͘
dŚĞ^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶ
ůƚĞƌŶƃĚĞǀĞůŽƉƐƐĂŶĚͲďĂƐĞĚƚŚĞƌŵĂůĞŶĞƌŐǇƐƚŽƌĂŐĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐƚŚĂƚƐƚŽƌĞ
ƌĞŶĞǁĂďůĞĞŶĞƌŐǇĂƐŚĞĂƚ͕ƌĞĚƵĐŝŶŐĚĞƉĞŶĚĞŶĐǇŽŶĨŽƐƐŝůĨƵĞůƐ͘/ƚƐƉƌŽƉƌŝĞƚĂƌǇ
ůƚĞƌŶƃ^ƚĂŶĚĂƌĚĂŶĚůƚĞƌŶƃWƌŽƐǇƐƚĞŵƐƉƌŽǀŝĚĞĐŽƐƚͲĞĨĨĞĐƚŝǀĞ͕ůŽŶŐͲ
ĚƵƌĂƚŝŽŶƐƚŽƌĂŐĞĨŽƌŝŶĚƵƐƚƌŝĞƐŶĞĞĚŝŶŐĐŽŶƐŝƐƚĞŶƚŚŝŐŚͲƚĞŵƉĞƌĂƚƵƌĞŚĞĂƚ͘
dƌĂĐƚŝŽŶ
DĂƌŬĞƚ^ŝǌĞ͗dŚĞƚŽƚĂůĂĚĚƌĞƐƐĂďůĞŵĂƌŬĞƚĨŽƌůŽŶŐͲĚƵƌĂƚŝŽŶĞŶĞƌŐǇƐƚŽƌĂŐĞ
ƐǇƐƚĞŵƐŐůŽďĂůůǇŝƐǀĂůƵĞĚĂƚh^Ψϯ͘ϲƚƌŝůůŝŽŶ͘ǇϮϬϮϴ͕ƚŚĞƐĞƌǀŝĐĞĂďůĞĂǀĂŝůĂďůĞ
ŵĂƌŬĞƚ ĨŽƌƐŽůŝĚĨƵĞůƌĞƉůĂĐĞŵĞŶƚŝƐĞǆƉĞĐƚĞĚƚŽŐĞŶĞƌĂƚĞ h^ ΨϰϬϭďŝůůŝŽŶŝŶ
ĂŶŶƵĂůƌĞĐƵƌƌŝŶŐƌĞǀĞŶƵĞ͘ŵĞƌŐŝŶŐƚƌĞŶĚƐŝŶĚŝĐĂƚĞĂŐƌŽǁŝŶŐĚĞŵĂŶĚĨŽƌ
ƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďůĞŝŶĚƵƐƚƌŝĂůŚĞĂƚŝŶŐ͕ĂƵƚŽŵĂƚŝŽŶ͕ĂŶĚƚŚĞƌŵĂůƐƚŽƌĂŐĞ͘
ZĞǀĞŶƵĞ͗ ůƚĞƌŶƃŐĞŶĞƌĂƚĞĚh^Ψϯϭϴ͕ϬϬϬ ŝŶƌĞǀĞŶƵĞƐŝŶϮϬϮϰĂŶĚŝƐƉƌŽũĞĐƚĞĚ
ƚŽŐĞŶĞƌĂƚĞh^ΨϮ͘ϱͲϯ ŵŝůůŝŽŶ ŝŶϮϬϮϱ͘
DŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗ ůƚĞƌŶƃ ŚĂƐĂĐŚŝĞǀĞĚƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐŵŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗
x ĐŚŝĞǀĞĚƐŝŐŶŝĨŝĐĂŶƚ ǇĞĂƌͲŽǀĞƌͲǇĞĂƌƌĞǀĞŶƵĞŐƌŽǁƚŚ ŽĨϲϬϬй͕ƌĞĨůĞĐƚŝŶŐ
ƐƚƌŽŶŐŵĂƌŬĞƚĚĞŵĂŶĚĂŶĚƌĂƉŝĚĐŽŵŵĞƌĐŝĂůŝǌĂƚŝŽŶ͘
x tŝŶŶĞƌĂƚWĞƉƐŝ'ƌĞĞŶŚŽƵƐĞĐĐĞůĞƌĂƚŽƌĂŶĚdŽƉϮĂƚ^ƚĂƌƚƵƉtŽƌůĚƵƉ
ϮϬϮϰ͘
x ^ĞĐƵƌĞĚĐŽŶƚƌĂĐƚƐǁŝƚŚWĞƉƐŝŽ͕DŽŶĚĞůĞǌ͕ĂŶĚDǇsŝĞƚŽĨĨĞĞ͖ĞŶŐĂŐĞĚ
ǁŝƚŚDĂƌƵďĞŶŝΘ^ĐŚŶĞŝĚĞƌůĞĐƚƌŝĐĨŽƌƉŝůŽƚƉƌŽũĞĐƚƐ͘
x ĞƉůŽǇĞĚůƚĞƌŶƃ^ĂŶĚĂƚƚĞƌǇĂƚWĞƉƐŝŽ,ƵŶŐzĞŶ͖ĞǆƉĂŶĚŝŶŐǁŝƚŚ
ůƚĞƌŶƃ,ǇďƌŝĚ;ďŝŽŵĂƐƐͿĂŶĚůƚĞƌŶƃ;ŚĞĂƚͲƚŽͲĞůĞĐƚƌŝĐŝƚǇͿ͖ƐĐĂůĞĚZΘĂŶĚ
ŵĂŶƵĨĂĐƚƵƌŝŶŐ͘
/ŶǀĞƐƚŵĞŶƚKƉƉŽƌƚƵŶŝƚǇ
ůƚĞƌŶƃŝƐƌĂŝƐŝŶŐh^ Ψϭ ŵŝůůŝŽŶŝŶ ^ĞƌŝĞƐϮƌŽƵŶĚĂƚĂh^ΨϭϬ ŵŝůůŝŽŶƉƌĞͲ
ŵŽŶĞǇǀĂůƵĂƚŝŽŶƚŽƐĐĂůĞŵĂŶƵĨĂĐƚƵƌŝŶŐ͕ĂĚǀĂŶĐĞZΘ͕ĂŶĚĞǆƉĂŶĚ
ƉĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉƐ͘ ZĞǀĞŶƵĞŝƐƉƌŽũĞĐƚĞĚĂƚh^ΨϮ͘ϱͲϯŵŝůůŝŽŶ ŝŶϮϬϮϱ͕ĚŽƵďůŝŶŐƚŽ
h^ΨϴͲϭϬ ŵŝůůŝŽŶ ŝŶϮϬϮϲ͕ǁŝƚŚ ŽǀĞƌh^ ΨϮϬ ŵŝůůŝŽŶ ĞǆƉĞĐƚĞĚďǇϮϬϮϴ͘^ĞƌŝĞƐ
ƌŽƵŶĚŝŶϮϬϮϳʹϮϬϮϴǁŝůůĚƌŝǀĞĨƵƌƚŚĞƌŐƌŽǁƚŚǁŝƚŚƉĂƌƚŶĞƌƐůŝŬĞ,ŽŶĚĂĂŶĚ
DĂƌƵďĞŶŝ͘ǆŝƚƐƚƌĂƚĞŐǇ͗^ƚƌĂƚĞŐŝĐDΘŽƌ/WKďǇϮϬϯϬ͘
ůƚĞƌŶƃ
ƐƚĂďůŝƐŚĞĚ>ŽĐĂƚŝŽŶ
ϮϬϮϯ sŝĞƚŶĂŵ
^ĞĐƚŽƌ ŵƉůŽǇĞĞƐ
ZĞŶĞǁĂďůĞϭϮ
ĞŶĞƌŐǇ
ĂƉŝƚĂůZĂŝƐĞĚ
h^ΨϭŵŝůůŝŽŶŝŶƉƌĞͲƐĞĞĚƌŽƵŶĚ
h^ΨϭŵŝůůŝŽŶϭƌŽƵŶĚ
>ĞĂĚĞƌƐŚŝƉdĞĂŵ
,Ăŝ,Ž͗K
ƐĞƌŝĂůĞŶƚƌĞƉƌĞŶĞƵƌǁŝƚŚĞǆƚĞŶƐŝǀĞ
ĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞŝŶďƵŝůĚŝŶŐƚĞĐŚƐƚĂƌƚƵƉƐ͕
ǁŝƚŚĂĨŽĐƵƐŽŶƌĞŶĞǁĂďůĞĞŶĞƌŐǇ
ĂŶĚƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇ
EĂŵEŐƵǇҴŶ͗dK
ϭϬнǇĞĂƌƐ ŽĨĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞŝŶƌŽďŽƚŝĐƐ
ĂŶĚĂƵƚŽŵĂƚŝŽŶ͕EĂŵŚĂƐďĞĞŶ
ŝŶƐƚƌƵŵĞŶƚĂůŝŶůĞĂĚŝŶŐůƚĞƌŶƃ͛Ɛ
ƚĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐŝĐĂůŝŶŶŽǀĂƚŝŽŶƐ
tĞďƐŝƚĞ
ĂůƚĞƌŶŽ͘ŶĞƚ
 ůƚĞƌŶƃ
ŽŶƚĂĐƚ
,Ăŝ,Ž͕ K
ŚĂŝΛĂůƚĞƌŶŽ͘ŶĞƚ
ǁǁǁ͘Wϰ'WĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉƐ͘ŽƌŐ
49
ƐƚĂďůŝƐŚĞĚ >ŽĐĂƚŝŽŶ
ϮϬϮϭ sŝĞƚŶĂŵ
^ĞĐƚŽƌ ŵƉůŽǇĞĞƐ
ZĞŶĞǁĂďůĞ ϭϵ
ĞŶĞƌŐǇ
ĂƉŝƚĂůZĂŝƐĞĚ
h^Ψϱ͘ϱ ŵŝůůŝŽŶĞƋƵŝƚǇ ;^ĞĞĚн
^ĞƌŝĞƐͿ
h^Ψϴ ŵŝůůŝŽŶĚĞďƚ
>ĞĂĚĞƌƐŚŝƉdĞĂŵ
ŶĚƌĞǁ&ĂŝƌƚŚŽƌŶĞ͗K
ϭϴн ǇĞĂƌƐŽĨĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞŝŶ
ĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůƐĞƌǀŝĐĞƐĂŶĚĂŶĂůǇƚŝĐƐ
ǁŝƚŚůĞĂĚŝŶŐŝŶƚĞƌŶĂƚŝŽŶĂůĂŶĚ
ĚŽŵĞƐƚŝĐďĂŶŬƐ͘^ƚƌŽŶŐƚƌĂĐŬ
ƌĞĐŽƌĚŽĨŐƌŽǁŝŶŐďƵƐŝŶĞƐƐĞƐĂŶĚ
ůĞĂĚŝŶŐƚĞĂŵƐ͘
>ĞŽWŽůŽũĂĐ͗ KK
ϮϬн ǇĞĂƌƐŽĨĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞŝŶ
ĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůƐĞƌǀŝĐĞƐĂŶĚ
ƚĞůĞĐŽŵŵƵŶŝĐĂƚŝŽŶƐ͘ϭϮǇĞĂƌƐŽĨ
ĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞŝŶƌŝƐŬ ŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚŝŶ
sŝĞƚŶĂŵ͘
dƌĂ>Ğ͗ dK
ϭϰнǇĞĂƌƐŽĨĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞ
ĚĞǀĞůŽƉŝŶŐĂŶĚŵĂŶĂŐŝŶŐ/d
ŝŶĨƌĂƐƚƌƵĐƚƵƌĞ ĂĐƌŽƐƐďĂŶŬŝŶŐ͕
ƚĞůĞĐŽŵŵƵŶŝĐĂƚŝŽŶƐĂŶĚ
ĞŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐ͘
tĞďƐŝƚĞ
ǁǁǁ͘ƐƚƌŝĚĞ͘ǀŶ
ƐƚƌŝĚĞĐŽůƚĚ
ŽŶƚĂĐƚ
ŶĚƌĞǁ&ĂŝƌƚŚŽƌŶĞ͕ K
ĂĨΛƐƚƌŝĚĞ͘ǀŶ
^ƚƌŝĚĞ
ǁǁǁ͘Wϰ'WĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉƐ͘ŽƌŐ
50
ďŽƵƚ
^ƚƌŝĚĞŝƐĂ ĐůĞĂŶƚĞĐŚ ƐƚĂƌƚƵƉŝŶsŝĞƚŶĂŵŽĨĨĞƌŝŶŐĐƵƐƚŽŵĞƌƐ ƐŽůĂƌƉƌŽĚƵĐƚƐĂŶĚ
ĂĨĨŽƌĚĂďůĞ ƉĂǇŵĞŶƚƉůĂŶ ŽƉƚŝŽŶƐĨŽƌƚŚĞŝƌƐŽůĂƌŝŶƐƚĂůůĂƚŝŽŶƐ͘
dŚĞŚĂůůĞŶŐĞ
sŝĞƚŶĂŵ͛ƐĞŶĞƌŐǇĚĞŵĂŶĚƐĂƌĞŝŶĐƌĞĂƐŝŶŐ ďǇŵŽƌĞƚŚĂŶϴйĂŶŶƵĂůůǇ͘ ƐƉĂƌƚŽĨ
ŝƚƐĞŶĞƌŐǇƚƌĂŶƐŝƚŝŽŶƉůĂŶ͕ƚŚĞsŝĞƚŶĂŵĞƐĞŐŽǀĞƌŶŵĞŶƚŚĂƐ ƐĞƚĂŐŽĂůŽĨŚĂǀŝŶŐ
ϱϬйŽĨďƵŝůĚŝŶŐƐĂŶĚƌĞƐŝĚĞŶĐĞƐŚĂǀĞƌŽŽĨƚŽƉƐŽůĂƌďǇϮϬϯϬ͘ ,ŽǁĞǀĞƌ͕ ŚŝŐŚ
ƵƉĨƌŽŶƚĐŽƐƚƐƌĞŵĂŝŶĂďĂƌƌŝĞƌƚŽ ƚŚĞ ĂĚŽƉƚŝŽŶ ŽĨƐŽůĂƌĞŶĞƌŐǇ͘
dŚĞ ^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶ
^ƚƌŝĚĞ͛ƐƉƌŝŵĂƌǇĐŽŶƐƵŵĞƌ ƐĞŐŵĞŶƚ ŝƐŚŽƵƐĞŚŽůĚƐĂŶĚƐŵĂůůͲŵĞĚŝƵŵƐŝǌĞĚ
ďƵƐŝŶĞƐƐĞƐ͘dŚĞƐƚĂƌƚƵƉ͛ƐĐŽŵƉĞƚŝƚŝǀĞĂĚǀĂŶƚĂŐĞŝƐĂƋƵŝĐŬƉƌĞͲĂƉƉƌŽǀĂůƉƌŽĐĞƐƐ
ĂŶĚĂ ůŽǁ ƵƉĨƌŽŶƚĚĞƉŽƐŝƚŽĨϮϬй͘^ƚƌŝĚĞƉĂǇƐƚŚĞƌĞŵĂŝŶŝŶŐϴϬйĂŶĚĐŽůůĞĐƚƐŝƚ
ďĂĐŬŝŶŵŽŶƚŚůǇŝŶƐƚĂůůŵĞŶƚƐ͘ ŶŽƚŚĞƌ ĚŝƐƚŝŶŐƵŝƐŚŝŶŐ ĨĂĐƚŽƌ ŝƐĐŽŵƉůŝŵĞŶƚĂƌǇ
ƉƌŽũĞĐƚ ŝŶƐƵƌĂŶĐĞ ĂŶĚ ŝŶĚĞƉĞŶĚĞŶƚ ƋƵĂůŝƚǇĂƐƐƵƌĂŶĐĞĐŚĞĐŬ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚŝŶĐƌĞĂƐĞƐ
ĐŽŶƐƵŵĞƌĐŽŶĨŝĚĞŶĐĞŝŶƚŚĞƉƌŽĚƵĐƚ͘
^ƚƌŝĚĞŽĨĨĞƌƐ ĐŽŶƐƵŵĞƌƐ ƚǁŽƉŽŝŶƚƐŽĨƐĂůĞ͗
x ŝƌĞĐƚƚŚƌŽƵŐŚ ^ƚƌŝĚĞ͛ƐŽŶůŝŶĞĐŚĂŶŶĞů͘
x ^ƚƌŝĚĞ͛Ɛ ƐŽůĂƌŝŶƐƚĂůůĞƌ ŶĞƚǁŽƌŬ ǁŚŝĐŚ ŽĨĨĞƌƐĚŝƐĐŽƵŶƚƐƚŚĂƚĐĂŶďĞ ƉĂƐƐĞĚŽŶ ƚŽ
ĐŽŶƐƵŵĞƌƐ͘
dƌĂĐƚŝŽŶ
DĂƌŬĞƚƐŝǌĞ͗ dŚĞ ƐĞƌǀŝĐĞĂďůĞ ĂĚĚƌĞƐƐĂďůĞ ŵĂƌŬĞƚŝŶsŝĞƚŶĂŵŝƐĂƌŽƵŶĚh^Ψϰ͘ϱ
ďŝůůŝŽŶ ĂŶĚ^ƚƌŝĚĞŚĂƐƚŚĞƉŽƚĞŶƚŝĂůƚŽƌĞĂĐŚ ĂďŽƵƚ ϱйŽĨƚŚŝƐŵĂƌŬĞƚ ŝŶƚŚĞŶĞǆƚ
ĨŝǀĞ ǇĞĂƌƐ͕ ĂďŽƵƚh^ΨϮϮϱ ŵŝůůŝŽŶ͘
ZĞǀĞŶƵĞ͗ ^ƚƌŝĚĞ ƋƵĂĚƌƵƉůĞĚŝƚƐ ƌĞǀĞŶƵĞ ŝŶ ϮϬϮϰ ĂŶĚƉůĂŶƐƚŽĚŽƵďůĞ ŝƚƐƌĞǀĞŶƵĞ
ŝŶ ϮϬϮϱ͘ ^ƉĞĐŝĨŝĐŶƵŵďĞƌƐĐĂŶďĞƉƌŽǀŝĚĞĚŽŶƌĞƋƵĞƐƚ͘
DŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗ ^ƚƌŝĚĞ ŚĂƐ ŐƌŽǁŶƌĂƉŝĚůǇǁŝƚŚ ŝƚƐ ϮϬDtƐŽůĂƌƉŽǁĞƌƉůĂŶƚŚĂǀŝŶŐ
ƐŝŐŶĞĚƉƌŽũĞĐƚƐ ďǇĞŶĚŽĨϮϬϮϰĂŶĚ ĂŝŵƐƚŽ ĚŽƵďůĞ ŝƚƐ ĐĂƉĂĐŝƚǇŝŶϮϬϮϱ͘
/ŶǀĞƐƚŵĞŶƚKƉƉŽƌƚƵŶŝƚǇ
^ƚƌŝĚĞŝƐůŽŽŬŝŶŐĨŽƌh^ΨϴͲϭϬ ŵŝůůŝŽŶŝŶ ĐŽŶǀĞƌƚŝďůĞŶŽƚĞĂŶĚŶŽŶͲĚŝůƵƚŝǀĞ ĚĞďƚ
ĨŝŶĂŶĐŝŶŐƚŽƐƵƉƉŽƌƚ ƚŚĞĨŝŶĂŶĐŝŶŐŽĨŶĞǁƐŽůĂƌƌŽŽĨƚŽƉƉƌŽũĞĐƚƐŝŶsŝĞƚŶĂŵ͘ dŚŝƐ
ǁŝůůĐŽŶƚŝŶƵĞƚŽ ƉŽƐŝƚŝŽŶƚŚĞƐƚĂƌƚƵƉĂƐĂůĞĂĚĞƌŝŶ ƉĂǇŵĞŶƚƉůĂŶƐ ŝŶsŝĞƚŶĂŵĂŶĚ
ŚĞůƉŝƚŵĞĞƚŝƚƐƉƌŽũĞĐƚĞĚĐĂƉŝƚĂůƌĞƋƵŝƌĞŵĞŶƚƐ͘
ďŽƵƚ
ZĞ&ĞĞĚ ƌĞǀŽůƵƚŝŽŶŝǌĞƐƵƐĞĚĐŽŽŬŝŶŐŽŝůĐŽůůĞĐƚŝŽŶ ;hKͿ͕ĐƌĞĂƚŝŶŐĂƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďůĞ
ƐƵƉƉůǇĐŚĂŝŶĨŽƌƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďůĞĂǀŝĂƚŝŽŶĨƵĞů ;^&Ϳ ǁŚŝůĞĞŵƉŽǁĞƌŝŶŐĐŽŵŵƵŶŝƚŝĞƐ
ĂŶĚƉƌŽƚĞĐƚŝŶŐƚŚĞĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚƚŚƌŽƵŐŚŝŶŶŽǀĂƚŝǀĞƚĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐǇ͘
dŚĞŚĂůůĞŶŐĞ
ZĞ&ĞĞĚΖƐĐŚĂůůĞŶŐĞŝƐĞƐƚĂďůŝƐŚŝŶŐĂƌĞůŝĂďůĞhKƐƵƉƉůǇĐŚĂŝŶĨŽƌƚŚĞďŽŽŵŝŶŐ
^&ŵĂƌŬĞƚĂŵŝĚƐƚĐŽŵƉůĞǆůŽŐŝƐƚŝĐĂůĂŶĚŵĂƌŬĞƚĚǇŶĂŵŝĐƐ͘dŚŝƐŝŶĐůƵĚĞƐ
ĐŽŵƉĞƚŝŶŐǁŝƚŚƚŚĞŝůůŝĐŝƚΗďůĂĐŬŽŝůΗŵĂƌŬĞƚĨŽƌhK͕ŽǀĞƌĐŽŵŝŶŐŝŶĨŽƌŵĂƚŝŽŶ
ĂƐǇŵŵĞƚƌǇƚŚĂƚŚŝŶĚĞƌƐĞĨĨŝĐŝĞŶƚĐŽůůĞĐƚŝŽŶ͕ĂŶĚĞŶƐƵƌŝŶŐƉƌŽƉĞƌĚŝƐƉŽƐĂůƚŽ
ŵŝƚŝŐĂƚĞĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂůĂŶĚŚĞĂůƚŚƌŝƐŬƐ͘
dŚĞ ^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶ
ZĞ&ĞĞĚΖƐ ƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƚĂĐŬůĞƐhKǁĂƐƚĞĂŶĚ^&ĚĞŵĂŶĚǁŝƚŚĂƚĞĐŚͲĚƌŝǀĞŶ
ĐŽůůĞĐƚŝŽŶŶĞƚǁŽƌŬ͘^ŵĂƌƚǀĞŶĚŝŶŐŵĂĐŚŝŶĞƐĂŶĚƚǁŽ ĂƉƉƐŝŶĐĞŶƚŝǀŝǌĞĐŽůůĞĐƚŝŽŶ͕
ĞŶƐƵƌĞƚƌĂĐĞĂďŝůŝƚǇĂŶĚ ĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůůǇ ĞŵƉŽǁĞƌĐŽŵŵƵŶŝƚŝĞƐ͘dŚŝƐĐƌĞĂƚĞƐĂ
ƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďůĞhKƐƵƉƉůǇĐŚĂŝŶ͕ƌĞĚƵĐŝŶŐĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂůŝŵƉĂĐƚĂŶĚƉƌŽǀŝĚŝŶŐ
ĐƌƵĐŝĂůĨĞĞĚƐƚŽĐŬĨŽƌ^&͕ǁŚŝůĞĂůƐŽĞĚƵĐĂƚŝŶŐƚŚĞƉƵďůŝĐĂŶĚĨŽƐƚĞƌŝŶŐĂĐŝƌĐƵůĂƌ
ĞĐŽŶŽŵǇ͘ ZĞ&ĞĞĚΖƐƚĂƌŐĞƚĐƵƐƚŽŵĞƌƐĂƌĞƚǁŽĨŽůĚ͗
x hK'ĞŶĞƌĂƚŽƌƐ͗ZĞƐƚĂƵƌĂŶƚƐ͕ĨŽŽĚƉƌŽĐĞƐƐŝŶŐĨĂĐŝůŝƚŝĞƐ͕ƐĐŚŽŽůƐ͕ŚŽƚĞůƐĂŶĚ
ŚŽƵƐĞŚŽůĚƐͶĂŶǇĞŶƚŝƚǇƚŚĂƚƉƌŽĚƵĐĞƐƵƐĞĚĐŽŽŬŝŶŐŽŝů͘
x ^&WƌŽĚƵĐĞƌƐͬŝƌůŝŶĞƐ͗ƵƐŝŶĞƐƐĞƐƚŚĂƚǁŝůůƵůƚŝŵĂƚĞůǇƵƐĞƚŚĞĐŽůůĞĐƚĞĚhKƚŽ
ĐƌĞĂƚĞƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďůĞĂǀŝĂƚŝŽŶĨƵĞů͘
dƌĂĐƚŝŽŶ
DĂƌŬĞƚƐŝǌĞ͗dŚĞŶĂƚŝŽŶĂůǀĞŐĞƚĂďůĞŽŝůĐŽŶƐƵŵƉƚŝŽŶŝƐǀĂůƵĞĚĂƚ h^ ΨϮ͘ϰďŝůůŝŽŶ
ĂŶĚĐŽŶƚŝŶƵĞƐƚŽŐƌŽǁ͘ĂĐŚǇĞĂƌ͕ĂƉƉƌŽǆŝŵĂƚĞůǇϯϬϬ͕ϬϬϬƚŽŶƐŽĨhK ŝƐ
ŐĞŶĞƌĂƚĞĚ͘^ŽĨĂƌ͕ZĞ&ĞĞĚ ŚĂƐ ĐŽǀĞƌĞĚϴϬϬƚŽŶƐ ŝŶƚŚĞŵĂƌŬĞƚĂŶĚŝƐ ŽŶƚƌĂĐŬƚŽ
ƌĞĂĐŚϭ͕ϬϬϬƚŽŶƐƐŽŽŶ͘
ZĞǀĞŶƵĞ͗/ŶϮϬϮϯ͕ZĞ&ĞĞĚŐĞŶĞƌĂƚĞĚh^ΨϯϯϬ͕ϬϬϬŝŶƌĞǀĞŶƵĞĂŶĚĐůŽƐĞĚϮϬϮϰ
ǁŝƚŚh^ΨϱϬϬ͕ϬϬϬŝŶƌĞǀĞŶƵĞ͕ĂǇĞĂƌͲŽǀĞƌͲǇĞĂƌŐƌŽǁƚŚƌĂƚĞŽĨϭϱϭй͘ǇϮϬϮϴ͕
ZĞ&ĞĞĚĂŝŵƐƚŽŐĞŶĞƌĂƚĞŽǀĞƌh^Ψϭ͕ϬϬϬ͕ϬϬϬŝŶĂŶŶƵĂůƌĞǀĞŶƵĞ͕ ŚĂǀĞ ĂƚĞĂŵ ŽĨ
ŽǀĞƌϭϬϬĨƵůů ƚŝŵĞǁŽƌŬĞƌƐ͕ ĂŶĚ ƌĞĐƌƵŝƚĂŶĚƚƌĂŝŶŽǀĞƌϭ͕ϬϬϬĐŽůůĂďŽƌĂƚŽƌƐ͘
DŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗ ZĞ&ĞĞĚŚĂƐĂĐŚŝĞǀĞĚƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐŵŝůĞƐƚŽŶĞƐ͗
x ^ĞĐƵƌĞĚ DKhƐ ĂŶĚůŽŶŐͲƚĞƌŵĐŽŶƚƌĂĐƚƐǁŝƚŚƉĂƌƚŶĞƌƐĂŶĚĐƵƐƚŽŵĞƌƐ ůŝŬĞ
DŝƚƐƵďŝƐŚŝŽƌƉ͕sŝŶ'ƌŽƵƉ͕DĂƌƌŝŽƚƚ͕ ĂŶĚDĞůŝĂ͘
x ǁĂƌĚƐƚŽƚĂůŝŶŐh^Ψϱϴϴ͕ϰϵϴĨƌŽŵŵƵůƚŝƉůĞĚŝƐƚŝŶŐƵŝƐŚĞĚŝŶƐƚŝƚƵƚŝŽŶƐ͕ ǁŝƚŚĂŶ
ŽŶŐŽŝŶŐŐƌĂŶƚ ŽĨ h^ΨϰϬ͕ϬϬϬĨƌŽŵhEW/ŶĚŽŶĞƐŝĂ͘
/ŶǀĞƐƚŵĞŶƚKƉƉŽƌƚƵŶŝƚǇ
ZĞ&ĞĞĚ ŝƐƐĞĞŬŝŶŐƚŽƌĂŝƐĞh^Ψϯ ŵŝůůŝŽŶŝŶ ƐĞƌŝĞƐƌŽƵŶĚƚŚƌŽƵŐŚĞƋƵŝƚǇŽƌ^&
ĂŐƌĞĞŵĞŶƚƐ ƚŽ͗
x ǆƉĂŶĚĐŽůůĞĐƚŝŽŶŶĞƚǁŽƌŬ
x ŶŚĂŶĐĞƚĞĐŚŶŽůŽŐǇƉůĂƚĨŽƌŵ
x ƵŝůĚƐƚƌĂƚĞŐŝĐƉĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉƐ ǁŝƚŚ^&ƉƌŽĚƵĐĞƌƐĂŶĚĂŝƌůŝŶĞƐ
ƐƚĂďůŝƐŚĞĚ >ŽĐĂƚŝŽŶ
ϮϬϮϮ sŝĞƚŶĂŵ
<ŽƌĞĂ
^ĞĐƚŽƌ
ZĞŶĞǁĂďůĞĞŶĞƌŐǇ
ĂƉŝƚĂůZĂŝƐĞĚ
h^Ψϭ͕ϴϬϬ͕ϬϬϬĞƋƵŝƚǇ
h^Ψϱϴϴ͕ϰϵϴ ŐƌĂŶƚƐ
>ĞĂĚĞƌƐŚŝƉdĞĂŵ
>ĞĞŚƵŶŐŚŽ͗&ŽƵŶĚĞƌĂŶĚK
ϭϱн ǇĞĂƌƐŽĨĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞ ŝŶ
ĞŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐ ĂŶĚ^'Ăƚ ,ĂŶŚǁĂ
ĂŶĚ^ĂŵƐƵŶŐ
:ŽĞŶ:ƵŶďŽŶŐ͗ŽͲĨŽƵŶĚĞƌ
ϭϬнǇĞĂƌƐŽĨĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞŝŶ
ƉƌŽĐĞƐƐĞŶŐŝŶĞĞƌŝŶŐ͕ ĂŶĚ
ĨĞĞĚƐƚŽĐŬƉƵƌĐŚĂƐŝŶŐĂŶĚ
ƉůĂŶŶŝŶŐ Ăƚ ,ĂŶǁŚĂ ĂŶĚ
^ĂŵƐƵŶŐ͘
zŽƵ:ĞŽŶŐ,ǁĂŶ͗ŽͲĨŽƵŶĚĞƌ
ϭϮнǇĞĂƌƐŽĨĞǆƉĞƌŝĞŶĐĞŝŶ
ƉůĂŶŶŝŶŐŵĞĚŝĂƉůĂƚĨŽƌŵĂƚ
ŚŽƐƵŶŝůďŽĂŶĚƐĂŶEĂŶƵŵ
&ŽƵŶĚĂƚŝŽŶ͘
tĞďƐŝƚĞ
ŚƚƚƉƐ͗ͬͬǁǁǁ͘ƌĞĨĞĞĚ͘ĞĐŽ
ƌĞĨĞĞĚĞĐŽ
ŽŶƚĂĐƚ
>ĞĞŚƵŶŐŚŽ͕K
ĐŚ͘ůĞĞΛƌĞĨĞĞĚ͘ĞĐŽ
ZĞ&ĞĞĚ
ǁǁǁ͘Wϰ'WĂƌƚŶĞƌƐŚŝƉƐ͘ŽƌŐ
51
Sub-Sector Focus
Water  
Resilience
About
WaterLife Construction PLC provides affordable and reliable water-well drilling 
services in Ethiopia. With expertise in both manual and machine-operated 
borehole drilling, the company helps communities access clean water. Services 
include manufacturing agricultural equipment and engineering solutions. 
The Challenge 
Ethiopia faces a high rate of non-functional rural water systems, leaving 87% of 
the population relying on unsafely managed drinking water services. With an 
average non-functionality rate of 19%, sustainable and market-based solutions 
are needed to ensure long-term access to clean and safe water.
The Solution 
Waterlife constructs new water points and rehabilitate broken works, providing 
clean and safe drinking water to rural residents. The startup is running three 
SMART Water Kiosks as a pilot project, offering purified water at a low cost. 
These kiosks operate under a franchise model, empowering women and youth 
groups within the community and creating local employment opportunities.
Waterlife aims to generate profits while delivering exceptional value to 
customers, engaging individuals and businesses that utilize their water services.
Traction 
Market size: Approximately 35 million people in Ethiopia lack access to clean 
and safe drinking water. The total addressable market is around 3.7 million 
people (740,000 households). 1.5 million are in the serviceable available market. 
Since both government and NGOs provide clean and safe drinking water to 
communities, Waterlife aims to capture a market of around 250,000 people 
(50,000 households) in five years. 
Revenue: Waterlife recorded a 21% growth in revenues 2022-2023 to reach US 
$70,477 in 2023 and a further 50% growth to reach US $105,716 in 2024. With a 
planned expansion and business model enhancement, revenues for 2025 are 
projected to rise to US $222,100
Milestones: Waterlife has achieved the following milestones: 
x Constructed 73 new water points and 57 rehabilitation works in Sidama, 
Oromia, and Amhara Regional States
x Provided a total of 10,000 households consisting of 50,000 people with
access to safe and clean water through the rehabilitated water schemes
Investment Opportunity 
Waterlife aims to raise US $1,000,000 in equity to be channeled towards: 
x Infrastructure Rehabilitation: Upgrading and transitioning non-functional 
systems to solar-powered solutions 
x Smart Technology Deployment: Implementing IoT-enabled water 
management for operational efficiency 
x Water Kiosks Expansion: Establishing franchise-based models to drive 
sustainable water access 
x Carbon Credit Integration: Strengthening financial sustainability through 
carbon trading mechanisms 
Established             Location
2017                   Ethiopia
  
Sector             Employees
Water                   12
resilience             
Capital Raised 
US $468,000
Leadership Team 
Fasika Afeworik: Co-Founder and 
CEO
20 years of experience in design, 
product development, 
manufacturing and training, 
specializing in low-cost water and 
agricultural technologies 
Rahel Ayele: General Manager & 
Co-Founder
Experienced in communications
and business negotiations, driving 
strategic growth and partnerships
Dejene Hailu: Deputy GM and 
Carbon Project Manager
Experienced in leading project 
implementation and carbon credit 
initiatives, with expertise in 
engineering and marketing 
management
Website 
www.waterlifecon.com
Waterlife-plc
Contact 
Rahel Ayele
fasika.a@waterlifecon.com
Waterlife
www.P4GPartnerships.org
53
About 
Grekkon Limited was built to offer climate smart solutions such as 
borehole drilling and irrigation to small-holder farmers in Africa who are 
most affected by the ravages of climate change. The startup was 
registered in 2013 but formally began its operations in January 2017. 
The Challenge 
Sub-Saharan Africa has a host of water-related challenges such as: 
x Increased need for boreholes and irrigation for crop and livestock 
production
x High incidences of ‘dry’ wells due to low quality water scanning 
technology
x Inability to determine if the water quality in a borehole is suitable for 
irrigation before drilling
The Solution 
Grekkon uses advanced Danish technology TEMS for groundwater geo 
scanning, which guarantees 100% identification of irrigation water 
aquifers. This in turn ensures that every borehole drilled is high yielding, 
and that the water quality is suitable for irrigation. The startup offers five 
solutions: 
x Water sourcing and borehole drilling 
x Water harvesting and storage through dam liners 
x Water pumping including solar-driven surface pumps and submersible 
water pumps 
x Irrigation solutions including drip and overhead systems 
x Post-harvest crop losses management incl. solar driven drying solutions
Traction 
Market size: The serviceable available irrigation market in Kenya is 
estimated at US $425 million with Grekkon’s obtainable market being
0.10% which amounts to US $42.5 Million.
Revenue: In 2024, Grekkon generated US $1.168 million in revenue and 
expects to reach US $1.66 million by the end of 2025. Grekkon expects to
retain a 60% YoY revenue growth and grow its annual revenue to US
$10.9 million by 2028.
Milestones: Grekkon has achieved the following milestones:
x First to introduce double emitter drip lines in the Kenyan market to 
address the challenge of drip emitter clogging
x Projecting to reach up to 20,000 farmers with the company’s product 
offering by December 2024
Investment Opportunity
The company seeks to raise US $2 million split evenly across equity and 
debt. This will support expansion into Africa, working capital and 
manufacturing. 
Established                         Location
2013                                 Kenya
  
Sector    Employees     
Water resilience        22
Climate smart agriculture  
        
Capital Raised 
US $279,000 as equity
Leadership Team 
Wamae Mwangi: Administration and 
Commercial Director 
18+ years of experience working with small 
holder farmers across 13 African countries 
during his tenure at Farmchem Limited, 
Monsanto (now Bayer), and OCP Africa 
where he was the country director. 
Erastus Matete: Founder and Director in 
Charge of Technical and Innovation
15+ years of experience working with small 
holder farmers in east Africa during his 
tenure at Monsanto (now Bayer), and Yara 
fertilizers where he was the territorial lead. 
Website 
www.grekkon.co.ke
grekkon-limited-irrigation-hub
Contact 
Wamae Mwangi: Administration Director 
wamae@grekkon.co.ke
Grekkon Limited
www. P4GPartnerships.org
54
About 
Irri-Hub Ke is an agriculture company that provides rainwater harvesting with 
solar-enabled drip irrigation systems. These systems are IoT-enabled and 
bundled with ongoing customer support to smallholder farmers in Kenya, 
helping them maximize productivity as they build resilience against climate 
change
The Challenge 
98% of Africa's smallholder farmers rely on rain-fed agriculture for sustenance. 
They have limited access to modern irrigation systems and knowledge 
regarding optimal farming practices crucial for transitioning to sustainable, 
climate-resilient agriculture. This transition is crucial for maximizing 
productivity and building resilience against the impacts of climate change.
The Solution 
Irri-Hub Ke designs and implements low-cost water management solutions 
that help small farmers increase yield and predictability of production. The
end-to-end model offers everything from product sales to seedlings 
distribution, installation and service. 
Traction 
Market size: The serviceable available market for smallholder farmers in Africa 
is 5 million and Irri-Hub Ke’s servic eable obtainable market is 3 million 
smallholder farmers. The startup aims to reach 50,000 farmers by the end of 
2030. 
Revenue: Irri-Hub Ke has generated US $1 million in revenue since its inception. 
The company is currently piloting its IoT model. In 2024, Irri-Hub Ke generated
revenue of US $574,468 and expects a 30% year-on-year growth.
Milestones: The startup has achieved the following milestones: 
x Worked with 3,000 farmers to date 
x Increased smallholder revenue by 33% 
x Increased yields by 40% 
x Saved more than 200 million cubic liters of water
Investment Opportunity 
Irri-Hub Ke seeking US $1,200,000 in grant and debt financing. This will be 
used for capacity building, research and development, inventory - IOT 
hardware and agro-dealer onboarding. 
Established                              Location
2017                                      Kenya
Sectors       Employees 
Climate smart agriculture 17
Water resilience
Capital Raised 
US $450,000
Leadership Team 
Eric Onchonga: Co-founder & CEO
12+ years of experience in venture 
building. A top innovator recognized 
by the World Economic Forum and the 
winner of the African Youth 
Development Challenge in 2021. MBA
at the University of Nairobi and a 
certificate in Entrepreneurship in 
emerging economies from Harvard
University. 
Sheila Monyenche: Co-founder & CFO
6+ years of expertise in analysis and 
monitoring controls. A Certified Public 
Accountant & Audit Professional 
whose main area of experience is in 
financial reporting, financial 
management, and auditing. 
Website 
www.irri-hub.com
Irri-Hub Ke
Contact 
Sheila Monyenche: Co-founder & CFO
sheila@irri-hub.com
www. P4GPartnerships.org
55
Irri-Hub Ke
LocationEstablished
UK2023
           South Africa
EmployeesSector
5Water & Sanitation
Capital Raised 
US $10.5 million 
kaloola-sa
Contact 
Alvin Anderson
alvin@kaloola.co.za
Loowatt ZA Pty (KALOOLA)
www. P4GPartnerships.org
56
About
Kaloola is the first paid sanitation service in South Africa,  targeting low-income 
communities who lack  access to water and sanitation. The overall objective of
the social enterprise is to expand the service to reach 16,500 customers by
2029, with a core strategy of diversifying into the commercial toilet hire sector 
to strengthen profitability while growing social and environmental impact.
The Challenge
2 million homes in South Africa’s informal settlements rely on shared chemical 
toilets, community ablution blocks, buckets and latrines. This presents a risk of
damaging health, livelihoods, gender equality and social justice.
The  Solution
Kaloola’s solution consists of waterless flush toilets that seal waste into 
hermetic containers. Kaloola’s services process waste at treatment sites with 
the human waste delivered  as optimal feedstock for anaerobic digestion.
Traction
Market Size: In South Africa,  B2C home service is a frontier market worth at 
least US $100M annually.  The serviceable addressable market is at least US
$100 million and government-contracted toilet services to housing 
developments are led by municipal service providers who desperately need 
more solutions to deliver essential services to their constituents.
Revenue: Kaloola generated US $47,000 in revenue in 2024  in business to 
customer services with less than 2% monthly churn. Kaloola targets a revenue
generation of US $7.67 million by year 6 with an EBITDA of US $2.2 million. This 
requires circa  16,500 toilets to be installed by year 6 with more than 1  million 
users.
Milestones: Kaloola successfully launched South Africa’s first paid home toilet 
service and now serves  over 1,000  home residents (150 contracts, 60% women)
with less than 2% average monthly churn. The startup launched a commercial
trailer offering at Durban in July 2024 to rave reviews of the product and 
service.
Investment Opportunity
Kaloola is raising US $2  million in total equity in 2025, with a first close of US $1 
million by Q1-2025. The funds will be used to:
￿Expand home and commercial services in Durban and beyond
￿ Establish local contract and license production of toilets and system 
consumables
￿Develop circular economy partnerships
Leadership Team
Alvin Anderson: Executive Director
Bold  leader with 7+  years of 
experience in management and
enterprise  development of water 
and sanitation solutions for  South 
Africa’s informal settlements in 
Durban  and beyond.
Steven Gooding:  General Manager
Seasoned leader with  20+ years  of 
experience  as a branch manager for
Sanitech in Gauteng for  services to 
construction sites, events and 
informal settlements
Website
https://www.kaloola.co.za
PhoPhoPhoPhoPhPhPhPtototoby:by:by:by:by:byAfAfAfAfAfricricricriccricricaaan an an aBamBamBamboobooboo
African Bamboo
An Ethiopian Startup Transforming Sustainable 
Construction, Creating Jobs and Regenerating Forests
+2!)!.ƫĂĀĂą
Pioneering Green Partnerships,
Investing in Impact
57
“
By 2030, about 3 billion people globally will
need new housing and basic infrastructure. This
demand has immense health, wellbeing and climate
implications.
The buildings and construction sector contributes
to 37% of global emissions. As we think about new
construction, we must consider replacing carbon-
intensive materials with sustainable and climate
resilient ones.
This is where bamboo, the fastest-growing plant on
earth, comes in. Technically a grass, one hectare of
bamboo can sequester about 17 tons of carbon a
year. More crucially, it can continue to store carbon
even when used in construction.
But can the mighty bamboo prove to be a match
for the old construction stalwarts of concrete and
cement? According to Ethiopia-based African
Bamboo, and other breakthrough bamboo-based
initiatives working in the sector, the answer is yes.
African Bamboo is a company that has developed
a strong and resilient bamboo-based material that
is a sustainable and lower-carbon alternative to
traditional construction materials such as steel,
plastic, aluminum or tropical hardwood.
African Bamboo’s journey from inception to
investability has been adaptive and systematic,
yielding valuable lessons for other nature-based
start-ups. This case study captures African Bamboo’s
path to building a sustainable and scalable business
and the valuable lessons learned along the way.
The road to developing a strong prototype and an
equitable supply chain to manufacture bamboo-
based building materials was long, but none were
more suited to the journey than entrepreneurial
brother-and-sister duo Khalid and Rania Duri. 
Originally in the furniture business, the Duri siblings 
had a deep knowledge of the timber value chain. 
While their primary customer base was the local 
market, they noticed supply chain challenges - 
timber was increasingly scarce, and they faced 
competition from cheaper imported products. 
Seeking more sustainable forestry sources, they 
recognized the need to pivot their business model. 
As they spent time studying Ethiopia’s nascent 
forestry sector, the Duris’ search for a supply of high-
performance, locally available material led them from 
timber to bamboo. 
The Duri siblings dedicated time to studying 
Ethiopia’s native bamboo species - its availability, 
usability and potential for broader adoption. Khalid 
spent months immersed in bamboo-growing regions 
to deeply understand the market dynamics, existing 
technology and the overall value chain.
TECHNICAL APPROACH
The ﬁrst commercial product African Bamboo 
developed was high-end bamboo decking and 
cladding with a certiﬁed 20-year lifespan. Replacing 
tropical hardwood and modiﬁed wood products, it 
is sourced from Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) 
certiﬁed forests and tested in accordance with 
European standards 1. African Bamboo manages 
bamboo forests in a socially-, environmentally-, and 
economically-sustainable manner, supplying FSC-
compliant bamboo from a 10,000 hectare catchment 
area and 4,500 hectares of community-owned 
bamboo patches. 
The Duri siblings’ journey to this point spanned 7 
years, encompassing product development, testing 
and building a strong network of international 
technology partners. This included collaborating with 
We are creating diversiﬁed skilled employment and entrepreneurial opportunities 
throughout the bamboo agroforestry value chain: from seedling production and 
sustainable forest management, to value addition manufacturing, to forest and soil 
carbon development. These solutions are not independent, isolated ﬁxes; rather, 
they are part of a holistic ecosystem that addresses the social, economic and 
environmental challenges faced by different populations in Ethiopia.
–Khalid Duri, Founder and CEO, African Bamboo
58
state-of-the-art applied research institutions such as 
Fraunhofer Institute WKI Germany, TU Dresden, TU 
Delft and TU Munich. In addition, African Bamboo 
collaborated with the Netherlands Organization for 
Applied Scientiﬁc Research (TNO) to co-innovate 
and reﬁne the processing technology and advanced 
bamboo materials. 
The early capital to build the pillars of the business 
was drawn from the Netherlands Enterprise Agency 
(RVO), the German development agency (GIZ), and 
USAID, together with the Duris who invested more 
than US $5.5 million of their own capital.
To innovate and streamline manufacturing 
processes, African Bamboo collaborated with 
German mechanical engineering ﬁrm Dieffenbacher, 
international plywood leader Raute and a host 
of other companies. Several NGOs have also 
supported the development and growth of the 
business, including SNV Ethiopia, the International 
Bamboo and Rattan Organization (INBAR), iDE 
Global and more. 
With its pilot facility in Addis Ababa, African Bamboo 
has leveraged Europe’s advanced applied research 
infrastructure to support both the development of an 
innovative product line and conduct further research. 
It has developed a technology cluster to support its 
growth, patent inventions and proprietary processes. 
While it raises capital for its manufacturing facility 
in Ethiopia, it also provides technology services to 
established materials manufacturers, which generates 
an additional source of revenue for the startup. 
The bamboo species used in African Bamboo’s 
products is Yushania alpina, or highland bamboo. 
This variety features longer ﬁbers than Asian 
bamboos, a beneﬁcial property for industrial 
applications. Additionally, highland bamboo is 
non-invasive and grows in loose clumps, with 
a productivity rate of 40-60 tons per hectare. 
This fast-growing bamboo also sequesters a 
signiﬁcant amount of CO2, capturing 30-50 tons per 
hectare annually.
African Bamboo has pioneered innovative processing 
technologies that have signiﬁcantly enhanced the 
sustainability and efficiency of its products compared 
to conventional alternatives. The company has 
patented a novel production method that doubles 
throughput volumes relative to industry standards. 
This proprietary technology represents a 50% 
reduction in energy consumption compared to the 
pressing techniques commonly used for bamboo, 
plywood and similar materials. Additionally, it has 
also patented resin technology allowing for a 33% 
reduction in resin consumption and enhanced 
application precision for mass production. This 
versatile technology works for different bamboo 
species as well as a range of other natural ﬁbers. 
Finally, it has devised a process for bamboo ﬁber 
enhancement. By altering its biomass contents, 
speciﬁcally reducing hemicellulose and increasing 
its lignin content, the company has been able 
to achieve up to 90% ﬁber enhancement and 
has resulted in 37% energy savings compared to 
conventional wet processes.
THE PRODUCT
African Bamboo’s ﬂagship product is bamboo 
decking, a high-quality material suitable for outdoor 
use and available in lengths up to 10 meters. This 
decking is as strong as the commonly used tropical 
hardwood Bangkirai, with even higher stiffness. The 
product – which conforms to EU standards – is ﬁre-, 
water-, and termite-resistant, and comes with a 20-
year manufacturer’s warranty. 
Through its approach, African Bamboo has 
developed a versatile high-performance bamboo 
board suited for modern construction applications 
that can be transformed into a variety of products. 
The company’s alternative construction products are 
made from natural ﬁbers that are extremely strong 
and durable, with 28,000 MPa bending strength – 
PhoPPhohohoto t bbbyby:by:bbyby AAfAfAfAA ricricricriccccananaananana BamBamBamBamBamBamBamB booboobooboobooboobooooo
59
the most important parameter for estimating the 
strength of a product in the industry. It has the 
strongest engineered structural material, 2 times 
stronger than wood and the highest engineered 
wood class (LVL80S), and is both environmentally 
friendly and price competitive.
POLICY SUPPORT 
African Bamboo enjoys strong national-level 
support in Ethiopia and has been able to gain 
more support through the National Platform of 
the initiative Partnering for Green Growth and the 
Global Goals 2030 (P4G). P4G National Platforms 
(NP) are multi-stakeholder platforms co-chaired 
by senior government and private sector leaders. 
In the case of Ethiopia, this includes leaders from 
the Ministry of Planning and Development and 
the Chamber of Commerce. The NP has played a 
pivotal role in enabling African Bamboo’s success 
in several ways: facilitating strategic partnerships 
and connections with national and local institutions, 
providing technical assistance, securing political 
buy-in, offering policy and regulatory support, and 
facilitating project implementation. 
As with any nascent market, Ethiopia’s current 
policies and regulations don’t always keep up with 
the pace of change. African Bamboo aspires to see 
bamboo and trees categorized as an asset class in 
Ethiopia, so that utilizing these resources can be 
ﬁnanced in new ways. Currently, asset classes in 
Ethiopia tend to be properties, movable assets like 
cars or, more recently, livestock.
One consequence of bamboo lacking this designation 
is that farmers are not able to borrow against their 
bamboo holdings. As a result, farmers cannot access 
revenue until they sell to African Bamboo – and they 
don’t have available cash reserves to wait until the 
bamboo is mature to sell. Highland bamboo takes 
four years to mature before it can be harvested. 
The distinction of this bamboo is that it is harvested 
piecemeal, which means the plant remains healthy 
and standing after harvesting and continues to 
produce new shoots for future harvests. This nature 
of bamboo makes it more appealing for it to be 
considered a long-term investment asset.   
By introducing carbon credits as a way of assigning 
value to the non-revenue-generating period of the 
tree, banks can design loans that use young bamboo 
or prospective bamboo farms as collateral. Pegging 
PhoPhohoPhoPhPhoPhoPhoh to to to toto o o by:by:bybyb :y AfAfAfAfricricricricricricricci ananannanaannnanan BamBamBamBamBamBammBamBBBamBamboobooboobooboobooboobboboo
60
this to carbon credits also allows banks to give loans 
in local currency while selling the credits in dollars, 
thus circumnavigating the foreign exchange barrier 
that is an ongoing challenge in Ethiopia. 
In addition, with the European Union’s new 
Deforestation Regulation (EUDR) to curb the EU 
market’s impact on global deforestation and forest 
degradation, there is an opportunity to restore lands 
and bring more traceability to the EU supply chain 
in Ethiopia. Under the new EU regulation, companies 
trading in commodities such as coffee, cocoa and 
wood (among others) are required to inspect their 
value chain to ensure the products do not contribute 
to deforestation or degradation. 
This new regulation gives African Bamboo a 
signiﬁcant advantage in the international market 
because of its heavy emphasis on sustainable 
production and land restoration. The business follows 
international sustainability standards with ongoing 
monitoring to comply with its FSC certiﬁcation and 
Verra’s Veriﬁed Carbon Standard. Practices include 
maintaining over 75% of canopy cover, involving and 
training local communities in bamboo growing and 
harvesting, and restoring degraded lands through 
seedling distribution to maintain native species 
and biodiversity. African Bamboo also works with 
local technical and vocational training institutes and 
governments to support smallholders. 
Moreover, African Bamboo offers product traceability 
right to the source by using the Kanop software 
system to monitor and verify project activities. The 
system can trace bamboo and other species within 
the project ecosystem to the stock in a speciﬁc 
farmer’s plot or a block in a natural forest asset.  
INVESTMENT READINESS 
Bamboo companies in low- and middle-income 
countries often face challenges in securing 
investment through equity or debt. This is primarily 
due to development ﬁnance institutions categorizing 
them as either forestry or agricultural ventures, 
which are perceived as high-risk – despite bamboo 
not strictly ﬁtting into either category. The lack of 
clarity regarding classiﬁcation is further compounded 
by the absence of ﬁnancial models with suitable 
structures or expected returns.
What is clear, however, is that there is an incredible 
market opportunity for sustainable building 
materials – with expected market growth for bamboo 
projected at 4.5% until 2030 2. This can be attributed 
to several factors, from countries and companies 
trying to meet their emissions targets and manage 
their climate risks to a growing consumer preference 
for sustainability and traceability.  
African Bamboo’s offering is well-positioned to meet 
this project market demand. The company’s growth 
strategy is aligned with the Ethiopian government’s 
ambition3 of becoming the leading bamboo 
supplier in Africa by 2030. A distinct advantage 
African Bamboo has over other Ethiopian startups 
is its focus on exports. This allows it to generate 
foreign currency that covers its import needs. While 
Ethiopia’s current economic policy incentivizes 
exporters, recent ﬁscal reforms have increased the 
investment case for the country, one that could 
attract more interest in African Bamboo and more 
broadly in the country’s agroforestry sector.  
Since its establishment in 2012, African Bamboo 
has dedicated itself to build a strong foundation for 
business at scale. During this time, it has: 
•  Developed and reﬁned its technology and products
to meet international standards
• Built an agro-forestry ecosystem through
community engagement of nearly 6,000 farmers
over 10,000 hectares
• Established the right to operate: Securing of more
than 20,000 hectares of natural forest rights
through a 25-year Supply Purchase Agreement
with the regional government
• Obtained a production shed in the Hawassa
Industrial Park and obtained the licenses for
forestry, agriculture, trade, manufacturing and
import/export needed to run the business at scale
• Developed a Verra-listed carbon offset product
• Signed a guaranteed offtake agreement with SECA,
a leading wood industry company
• Began operating as a technology-ﬁrst
company providing research and development
support on using
The company envisions its growth coming from 
multiple business lines: 
1. Licensing its patented technology for processing
natural ﬁbers so that others can start their own
product lines using the same species
2. Scaling the production and sale of the bamboo
materials through its factory in Hawassa to meet
its secured offtake agreement
61
3. Generating revenue through the sale of Veriﬁed
Carbon Units from AB’s Verra-listed ARR
project in Ethiopia
The startup’s core business is its technology services 
to others in the building industry. The licensing of 
its intellectual property to businesses across Africa 
is also part of its vision for expansion. In addition, 
African Bamboo envisions the sale of materials from 
its own manufacturing facility in Ethiopia and future 
partner facilities in other countries to generate 
additional revenue. 
African Bamboo owns the patents to its processes, 
as well as a licensing model that will allow it to scale 
across Sub-Saharan Africa – which currently houses 
more than 4.5 million hectares of bamboo resources 4. 
In Ethiopia alone, the bamboo industry could 
generate up to US $5 billion in annual revenue and 
provide over 1.3 million jobs 5. 
The company expects its annual revenue to grow 
300% from a projected US $2.7 million in 2025 to US 
$8.1 million in 2026. By 2030, it expects to generate 
an annual revenue of almost US $26.6 million. This 
growth rate is dependent on African Bamboo’s 
ability to maintain its current positive trajectory and 
sustained growth across all its business offerings.   
The company’s business case has attracted strong 
interest from Germany’s KFW and the Dutch 
development bank FMO for a ﬁnancing round 
amounting to more than US $16 million to scale up 
African Bamboo’s operations starting in 2025. It 
expects to close KFW ﬁnancing by the end of 2024 
and FMO ﬁnancing in March 2025. The funding will 
enable the company to establish its manufacturing 
factory in Hawassa, Ethiopia. The startup is targeting 
June 2025 for placing plant and machinery orders 
for the factory with trial production starting in Q3 
2026 and commercial production in Q4 2026. At 
capacity, the factory will be able to produce 900,000 
m2 of outdoor bamboo decking per year. The factory 
will enable African Bamboo to generate US $94 
million within the ﬁrst 5 years through its secured 
offtake agreement.  
The company is listed on Verra and will implement 
reforestation activities and trade in Veriﬁed Carbon 
Units, adhering to Verra’s latest reforestation 
methodology (VM0047). The ﬁrst carbon project is 
expected to store over 6 million tons of carbon over 
a 40-year period.
FUNDER ACTIVITIES 
A key factor contributing to African Bamboo’s 
investment readiness is the grant and technical 
assistance it received from Partnering for Green 
Growth and the Global Goals 2030 (P4G). 
P4G is an initiative hosted by the World Resources 
Institute. It aims to mobilize climate ﬁnance to 
support early-stage businesses working in food, 
water and energy to enable country climate 
transitions. In 2022, P4G ﬁrst provided African 
Bamboo with about US $585,000 in grant funding 
to enhance its investment readiness. It 2024, it 
provided a second round of grant funding amounting 
to US $500,000.  
These funds have helped the company pursue 
activities and develop tools to expand its forest-
to-business model – from building a modular 
ﬁnancial model, to developing a risk measurement, 
management and sensitivity tool, to conducting 
environmental and social safeguard assessments. 
The grants have also helped African Bamboo 
pursue a decarbonization plan that will include 
the production and sale of biochar and carbon 
credits, providing the company with the agility 
of an additional revenue stream. With the aid 
of P4G’s funding, African Bamboo solidiﬁed its 
market presence by cementing a supply purchase 
agreement, showcasing its advanced technology, and 
entering the voluntary carbon market. These efforts 
ensured a strong value proposition for potential 
investors and partners while also reducing the 
business’s risk perception. 
P4G has also featured African Bamboo at high-proﬁle 
events such as its 2023 global summit in Bogota, 
Colombia, where it spotlighted the company in 
accelerator and investor pitch sessions and brought it 
to the attention of different investors. 
The African Bamboo team continued to meet with 
investors between 2021 – 2024 including institutions 
like the Dutch Fund for Climate and Development 
and the German state-owned investment and 
development bank KfW. In addition, it is working 
to secure additional revenue from carbon 
buyers by 2025. 
62
BAMBOO CULTIVATION AND 
COMMUNITY IMPACT 
African Bamboo was founded with a strong emphasis 
on community-led forestry operations. Drawing from 
their prior experience, the Duri siblings brought a 
deep understanding of how to build a sustainable 
value chain from the ground up. They recognized 
the key elements required to develop a resilient 
and ﬁnancially viable project that delivered social, 
environmental and economic returns.
The community-centric approach is central to 
African Bamboo. Therefore, it works directly with 
smallholders to understand their needs. The business 
has established 30 farmer cooperatives across 
ﬁve districts in the Sidama Region in southern 
Ethiopia, bringing together 4,800 smallholder 
farmers covering 4,400 hectares (with an average 
land holding size of 1 hectare) to develop bamboo 
agroforests. This enables the procurement of 
bamboo as well as restoring degraded land – a 
particular issue plaguing the Sidama Region 6. 
African Bamboo provides cooperative members with 
capacity-building technical and business training. On 
the technical side, this includes training on planting, 
harvesting, monitoring and reporting of carbon 
removal units. Business training includes business 
and ﬁnancial plan development, bookkeeping, basic 
cooperative management, access to ﬁnance and 
market linkages. In addition, it has provided the 
community with upskilling opportunities on using 
digital tools that give farmers traceability. Since 
many of the farmers African Bamboo works with are 
also involved in coffee-growing operations, these 
skills are critical and transferrable to their work 
on coffee farms. 
African Bamboo has also worked to address gender 
inequalities, encouraging women’s participation in 
bamboo farms by prioritizing bamboo plots and 
parcels for reforestation located near homesteads. 
The startup has also held tailored training and 
conducted capacity-building initiatives in locations 
where women typically meet and congregate, so 
that they do not have to take more time out of their 
day to attend. 
Bamboo grows at higher altitudes than coffee farms 
and men are typically more involved in coffee-
growing. This has given African Bamboo a unique 
opportunity to prioritize women’s engagement and 
ﬁnancial inclusion.
PhoPhPhPhhPhohoPhototo toto by:by:by:ybybby: AfAAfAfriccricricricccanananannaann BamBamBamaaamboboobobooooooo
63
At its full capacity of producing 900,000 m2 of 
bamboo decking per year, African Bamboo’s bamboo 
agroforestry undertaking has the potential to 
unlock an array of employment opportunities 7 and 
pathways in Ethiopia. The business could generate 
more than 300,000 jobs across the bamboo 
value chain, including jobs in planting, irrigation, 
harvesting, transportation, processing, biochar 
manufacturing and monitoring. African Bamboo 
has determined its jobs modeling through expert 
and community consultations and on-the-ground 
implementation experience.
For Meseret Tona, a 23-year-old female farmer who 
attended a training conducted by African Bamboo 
on the potential of bamboo-growing, a local bamboo 
nursery backed by a kebele (a small administrative 
unit in Ethiopia) would be a “game-changer.” 
Growing bamboo, Tona says, “has the potential to 
bring about positive change in our community and 
empower local farmers.”
African Bamboo has assisted farmers in several ways: 
• Providing them with seed capital to build the
capacity of their satellite and community nurseries
• Providing bridge loans to cover operational costs
• Supplying micro, small and medium enterprises
(MSMEs) with bamboo-processing equipment
(including supplying them with basic bamboo
furniture and coffee-drying mats)
In total, the company has provided 12 cooperatives 
and 19 MSMEs with access to ﬁnance – totally more 
than 1,000 beneﬁciaries. 
Genet Tumicha is a cooperative farmer working 
on her 2-hectare homestead. She sells bamboo 
and coffee at the local markets. One of the most 
challenging aspects of her work is her daily 15 
kilometer (9.3 mile) trek to fetch water from the 
river to use in her home. She plans on using the seed 
capital that African Bamboo has provided her with to 
invest in a cart and water jerrycans. This will enable 
her to transport more produce to the market and 
reduce her water collection trips to just twice a week. 
More produce sold means more earnings for her – 
and she can use her free time to further invest in her 
homestead, such as building a fence to protect her 
crops from animal damage. 
KEY LESSONS LEARNED 
1. An experienced team with deep technical and
fundraising expertise is a key ingredient for
success: An experienced and tenacious team
was paramount to African Bamboo’s success.
Khalid and Rania’s deep familiarity with building
resilient value chains in forestry helped the
company build a robust business model that was
both commercially viable and impact-driven.
Embedding team members with an in-depth
understanding of the start-up capital landscape
boosted the company’s fundraising efforts.
In addition, adding employees with strong
smallholder networks in the region helped African
Bamboo reach and train more farmers to build an
inclusive, strong and wide-ranging supply chain.
2. Flexible ﬁnance is critical: Raising greenﬁeld
ﬁnance in East Africa is challenging as most
ﬁnanciers require a fully operational model.
African Bamboo’s manufacturing model is not
well-suited to this requirement. In order to build
a resilient and sustainable business, the company
had to build a forestry sector from the ground
up. This differs vastly from regions such as the
US or Europe, which have established forestry
sectors. A lesson learned from African Bamboo’s
success story is that the market in countries like
Ethiopia requires ﬁnancing mechanisms beyond
blended ﬁnance. The importance of grant funding,
in particular, cannot be undervalued in terms
of its contribution to de-risking early-stage
businesses. African Bamboo credits P4G as one
of the initiatives that helped it turn the corner to
commercial viability by providing it with grant
Photo o by:b AAfricrican n Bamambooo
64
funding and technical assistance to lower its risk 
and become bankable. This was instrumental 
for a business working in a very challenging and 
fragile environment. 
3. Incorporating technology into the investable
model has been a big value-add: African Bamboo
realized that positioning itself as a technology
company with roots in manufacturing allowed for
quicker commercialization. Through technology
services, it offered a stronger investable
proposition that could be scaled and replicated at
speed in other African countries.
4. A strong understanding of the start-up capital
landscape is crucial: Having a team with a better
understanding of the start-up capital landscape
would have allowed the company to structure
itself to be more responsive to those markets. This
would have also allowed for better engagement
with the capital market. Once the team realized
the beneﬁts of accessing this market, it quickly
hired employees with startup know-how and 
spent time analyzing the key players investing in 
the forestry sector so they could foster deeper 
engagement with them. 
5. Strategic partnerships and a supportive multi-
stakeholder network are critical: African
Bamboo’s strategic partnerships have been crucial
to its success, enabling the company to access
technical expertise and support, enhance its
credibility and visibility, build a strong reputation
for social and environmental responsibility, and
scale its operations efficiently. The company is
leveraging these partnerships to access resources,
expertise and markets that it would not otherwise
have access to, ultimately allowing it to increase
its impact and reach in Ethiopia. The table below
gives an overview of the key stakeholders African
Bamboo has engaged with and their role in
supporting the business on its journey.
PhoPhohototto o by:by:bybb  Africanan Baammbooboboo
65
STAKEHOLDER ROLE 
Government of Ethiopia The Ethiopian Ministry of Planning and Development played a critical 
role in endorsing the growth of the bamboo sector. The ministry 
recognized African Bamboo’s alignment with national priorities 
relating to sustainable economic growth and supported the business 
by facilitating key connections. The ministry also took on board policy 
recommendations shared by African Bamboo to open the sector and 
attract new investors. 
Regional and woreda 
(district) government 
Regional and woreda (district) government support – which 
included facilitation, community engagement and smooth project 
implementation – was also essential to African Bamboo’s success.
Private sector Five-year guaranteed offtake agreements with leading wood 
industry companies like SECA helped African Bamboo boost investor 
conﬁdence in its product and model. 
International organizations Partnering with reputable organizations such as the International 
Bamboo and Rattan Organization (INBAR) and TU Delft helped 
African Bamboo gain credibility and visibility. This, in turn, helped 
strengthen its reputation and brand as a company committed to social 
and environmental responsibility. Other partnerships include TNO, 
Fraunhofer WKI, TU Dresden, TUM international, IHD, iDE, Farm Africa, 
Solidaridad and Fair Climate Fund.  
It is also working to partner with national and international 
organizations like Digital Green, Bamboo for Africa, BFA global and 
others to demonstrate its commitment to sustainable development 
and digniﬁed job creation.
Farmer cooperatives By entering into contracts with farmer cooperatives, African Bamboo 
was able to reach a larger network of smallholder farmers interested 
in becoming part of the supply chain. The cooperatives were also 
instrumental in helping build the capacity of smallholders to grow 
bamboo and operate nurseries. 
University incubators Having a research and development base at the applied research 
Technical University of the Netherlands (TNO Delft) allowed African 
Bamboo to access the technical expertise, research and lab facilities, 
and international validation required to build a strong product and 
business foundation. 
International trade agencies within 
government ministries 
Working with agencies like the Netherlands Enterprise Agency (RVO), 
housed within the Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs, connected 
African Bamboo with key ecosystem players in Europe and enabled it 
to expand its reach and network. 
Funders – including grant funders, 
development ﬁnance institutions and 
private sector investors 
Grant funding from organizations like P4G and the Challenge Fund 
for Youth Employment enabled African Bamboo to get the support it 
needed to set up critical de-risking elements such as dMRV tools, risk 
tools and ﬁnancial models. 
66
ENDNOTES
1. European Standard EN 15534−4, specifying the characteristics of decking proﬁles made from cellulose-
based materials.
2. https:/ /www.grandviewresearch.com/industry-analysis/bamboos-market#:~:text=What%20is%20the%20
bamboos%20market,USD%2088.43%20billion%20by%202030.
3. https:/ /www.epa.gov.et/images/PDF/Bambbo/Ethiopia_Bamboo_Development_Strategy__Action_Plan.pdf
4. https:/ /onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1155/2021/8835673#:~:text=The%20review%20process%20found%20
out,of%20the%20total%20bamboo%20species.
5. https:/ /www.un-redd.org/news/bamboo-ethiopia-can-it-help-stimulate-its-economy-while-same-time-
help-achieve-redd
6. https:/ /www.epa.gov.et/images/PDF/Environment/Sidama%20Natural%20Resource%20degradation%20
&prevention.pdf
7. African Bamboo has determined its jobs modeling through expert and community consultations and on-the-
ground implementation experience.
Key Forecasted Achievements
$25 million
Capital committed 
in cash and assets
112,700
People Positively Affected
12,700 direct beneﬁciaries and 
over 100,000 indirect beneﬁciaries 
(i.e. assuming eight dependents per family) 
over 10-year period
6,200
Jobs Created
2,500
Female Smallholders 
with Increased Incomes
$94 million
Guaranteed Offtake 
Agreement
$25 million
Carbon Investment 
Catalyzed (Projection) 
67
PhoPhoPhoPhohooohohohoPhohto to totototo toto tototooobby:by:by:by:bby:by:ySuSuSuSuSuSuuuuuSn Rn Rn RnRn Rn Runununununununu
Driving Change
Scaling Kenya’s EV Industry Through Capacity 
Building and Ecosystem Development
,.%(ƫĂĀĂĆ
68
The global landscape of electric vehicles (EVs) is 
rapidly evolving. The International Energy Agency  
projects that the market could reach 230 million 
vehicles sold globally by 2030, representing over 
60% of total vehicle sales. This growth underscores 
the critical role EVs play in reducing greenhouse gas 
emissions while improving air quality and enhancing 
public health. 
Kenya has emerged as a promising market for EVs, 
housing Africa’s largest electric mobility start-up 
ecosystem. The country is steadily adopting EVs as 
part of its strategy to promote sustainable transport, 
cut emissions and enhance energy efficiency. While 
the current market share for EVs in Kenya stands 
at about 1%, adoption is on the rise — especially 
in urban areas, with EV sales rising from 65 units 
in 2018 to 4,047 units in 2023, making up 2.4% of 
new vehicle sales. This jump is driven by supportive 
government policies, technological advancements 
and increased consumer awareness. 
Kenya’s journey toward a greener and more 
sustainable future began in the early 2000s, but 
a more formal approach began in 2016 with the 
launch of Kenya’s Green Economy Strategy and 
Implementation Plan . This comprehensive framework 
laid the foundation for integrating sustainable 
practices into economic development, emphasizing 
low-carbon pathways, resource efficiency and social 
inclusivity. Recognizing the growing global focus 
on climate change and clean energy solutions, 
Kenya’s leadership aimed to position the country as 
a trailblazer, prioritizing the transport sector, which 
accounted for a signiﬁcant share of the country’s 
greenhouse gas emissions  (as it does globally). 
Electriﬁcation of mobility soon emerged as a 
critical area of focus.
Kenya’s policymakers have put in place a number 
of measures to promote private sector investments 
in EVs, including tax incentives for EV imports, 
policies promoting EV-speciﬁc electricity tariffs and 
renewable energy generation, and the development 
of infrastructure for charging networks. Local 
entrepreneurs and innovators are driving the EV 
market forward by launching small businesses 
that capitalize on market growth and government 
incentives. However, challenges remain, including 
high upfront costs, the lack of expanded charging 
infrastructure, misaligned policy frameworks, a 
constricted ﬁscal space, and the lack of charging 
1 National Platforms are high-level public-private country networks that strengthen the enabling environment for climate entrep reneurs 
to enter the marketplace and scale their startups.
demand integration into existing power systems. To 
sustain this momentum, stakeholders must cultivate 
a supportive ecosystem that increases diverse EV 
solutions to meet various consumer needs.
The initiative Partnering for Green Growth and the 
Global Goals 2030 (P4G) assists early-stage green 
businesses, like Kenyan EV startups, in navigating 
the challenging early stages of growth, often 
called the “valley of death.” P4G provides grants 
to help startups validate their business models and 
overcome market challenges. It also offers technical 
assistance to strengthen their investment readiness 
and creates knowledge resources to tackle industry 
barriers. A key part of the P4G model is its startup 
partnership which teams startups with nonproﬁts 
and industry experts to drive important market 
transformations. P4G also provides specialized 
support in areas like verifying environmental and 
social beneﬁts, conducting regulatory analysis, 
and helping with community outreach and 
product-market ﬁt.
P4G’s National Platforms 1 (NPs) support startups 
by helping them navigate market challenges and 
overcome policy, legal and regulatory barriers in 
their countries. Startups present their business 
models, key challenges and knowledge products 
to the NPs, which then assist by organizing 
workshops and connecting the startups with experts 
and key stakeholders from government and the 
private sector. Through sector roundtables, these 
collaborations have helped shape discussions on 
inclusive e-mobility policies and laid the groundwork 
for future policy action.
Kenya’s NP comprises the National Treasury and 
Planning, the Ministry of Environment, Climate 
Change and Forestry and the Kenya Private Sector 
Alliance, alongside representatives from World 
Resources Institute, and the embassies of Denmark, 
the Netherlands and the Republic of Korea, who 
work together to facilitate policy and regulatory 
improvements that can strengthen climate 
entrepreneur ecosystems. 
P4G has directly supported 10 Kenyan startups 
across six e-mobility startup partnerships since 2018 
and has been one of the key actors transforming 
this marketplace over the past decade. This 
case study highlights four of these EV startup 
69
partnerships and examines the legal, regulatory 
and policy advancements they have driven through 
collaboration with Kenyan NP. 
The featured EV partnerships are BasiGo and 
Practical Action, Sun Run and Sustainable Transport 
Africa, M-KOPA Mobility and the Shell Foundation , 
and ChargeUp!, which includes Fika Mobility, ARC 
Ride and the NGO Energy4Impact. Each partnership 
tackles a different challenge in the e-mobility sector, 
such as ﬂexible ﬁnancing, battery swap models, 
charging infrastructure and expanding EV access 
to rural areas.
These partnerships have played a crucial role in 
identifying and addressing policy challenges faced 
by green businesses in Kenya. Their collective efforts 
have led to signiﬁcant contributions in shaping the 
country’s legal, policy, regulatory and institutional 
frameworks, including:
• A 22% reduction in the e-mobility tariff offered by
Kenya Power for EV charging at night, outlined in
the Kenya E-Mobility Tariff Review.
• A 15% reduction of the excise duties for importing
EV knock-down kits, now in the Tax Procedures
(Unassembled Motorcycles) Regulations .
• The creation of the MOBESSA Project, an
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG)
methodology and monitoring tool that is now
available for use by any EV company.
• A comprehensive set of recommendations
addressing both ﬁscal and non-ﬁscal issues to
advance e-mobility in Kenya, including necessary
regulatory changes, improvements in the national
EV charging infrastructure, and enhancements to
operations and maintenance support systems.
• The formation of the National Task Force on
E-Mobility, which was established to develop
and maintain a comprehensive National Electric
Mobility Policy.
• The Mitigation Action Facility which committed 25
million euros ($27 million) to accelerate the market
development of e-mobility in Kenya.
This case study also examines the mechanisms and 
tools P4G’s Kenya EV startups have leveraged to 
overcome key marketplace barriers and prove their 
business case and investment worthiness. These 
strategies include:
• Financial innovations, such as leasing models like
Pay-as-you-Go, Pay-as-you-Drive and Battery-
as-a-Service, are driving systemic change in the
e-mobility market.
• Data-driven knowledge products and dialogues
aimed at creating a more favorable regulatory
environment for e-mobility.
• Public-private partnerships and coalition-building
efforts, with Kenya’s NP playing a key role in
enabling data-driven policy interventions, bringing
together diverse stakeholders and securing
political support to accelerate EV adoption.
This case study provides valuable insights and 
tools for stakeholders to improve enabling market 
environments, drastically scale climate innovation, 
broaden business opportunities within this market 
and achieve sustainable mobility goals in Kenya.
Round 1
• M-KOPA Mobility - Shell
Foundation (PayGo)
• FIKA Mobility, ARC Ride &
Energy4Impact (ChargeUp!)
• Bodawerk, Opibus, Asobo, Anywhere.
Berlin & Siemens Foundation
(Accelerating E-Mobility Solutions
for Social Change)
Round 2
• BasiGo - Practical Action
• Sun Run - Sustainable Transport Africa
• Ebee - Sustainable Transport Africa
70
STARTUP VIGNETTE 1: 
BASIGO – CAPACITY 
BUILDING IN A NASCENT 
MARKET
• Innovation: Pay-as-you-Drive ﬁnancing for
electric buses.
• Enabling Environment Contribution:
• A memorandum to Kenya’s National Task Force
on E-Mobility based on BasiGo’s insights from
11 months of e-bus operations, which inﬂuenced
Kenya’s national e-mobility policy proposal.
• MOBESSA Project, a guideline for ESG and
Environmental and Social Management
Systems (ESMS) for the e-mobility sector in
Sub-Saharan Africa.
• Investment Raised: $42 million.
During the early months of the COVID-19 pandemic, 
BasiGo co-founders Jit Bhattacharya and Jonathan 
Green found themselves under lockdown in Nairobi, 
Kenya. With public transport paused, pollution levels 
dropped dramatically allowing for clear views of 
Mount Kenya and Mount Kilimanjaro. Inspired by 
the cleaner air, they saw the opportunity to make a 
signiﬁcant environmental impact through electric 
buses (e-buses). Their journey began by acquiring 
a few e-buses from China to test the feasibility of 
their business model. They translated their deep 
experience and knowledge in the solar industry into 
a compelling e-bus value proposition: BasiGo. 
BasiGo is a climate startup focused on introducing 
e-buses to transform Kenya’s public transport
system. BasiGo developed a multipronged solution
to overcome the barriers of e-bus adoption in
Sub-Saharan Africa by integrating e-bus sourcing,
charging and service infrastructure, and expertise
with an innovative Pay-as-you-Drive ﬁnancing model.
This model enables public bus operators to make
regular and affordable payments to BasiGo by paying
a security deposit and leasing on a daily, mileage-
based fee. Operators pay a deposit of $8,000
and a daily Pay-as-you-Drive fee of 52 cents per
kilometer. The lease fee, which covers all charging
and maintenance, is lower than the combined costs
of ﬁnancing, fuel and maintenance for diesel buses.
As a result, this model signiﬁcantly reduces the initial
capital requirements and allows operators to realize
more operational savings compared to diesel buses.
When BasiGo ﬁrst launched in 2021, the e-mobility 
market was still in early bloom. Initial policy gaps 
were a challenge; for example, board members of the 
National Transport and Safety Authorities struggled 
to categorize e-buses under existing frameworks. 
Despite these hurdles, BasiGo has achieved several 
signiﬁcant milestones, including: 
Customer acquisition:  It has partnered with multiple 
public transport companies, including Kenya Bus, 
one of the country’s oldest bus service operators, 
to transition its ﬂeet to electric buses . As Edwins 
Mukabanah, Kenya Bus Service’s managing director, 
noted: “That’s where the world is heading.”
Building a maintenance value chain:  Kenya Bus 
educates new EV bus drivers and provides EV repair 
services through internally hired service staff and 
partnerships with the existing bus maintenance 
ecosystem, building essential skills for Kenya’s 
future EV workforce.
Attracting commercial ﬁnance:  In October 2024, 
BasiGo announced that it successfully closed $42 
million in new capital. This is one of the largest 
investments in e-mobility in Africa and will support 
BasiGo’s goal of deploying more e-buses, enhancing 
its Pay-as-you-Drive model for new vehicle types, 
and improving technology platforms like Jani — a 
mobile booking app — to make e-buses more 
accessible and convenient for passengers. BasiGo has 
also partnered with Kenya Vehicle Manufacturers to 
launch the ﬁrst dedicated assembly line for e-buses 
in Kenya. BasiGo aims to deliver 1,000 e-buses 
between 2024 and 2027 and will leverage this new 
capital to expand its manufacturing capacity.
Contributing to policy and regulatory dialogues: 
• During the P4G funding period, BasiGo submitted
a memorandum to Kenya’s National Task Force
on E-Mobility based on insights from 11 months of
e-bus operations which inﬂuenced Kenya’s national
e-mobility policy proposal. The memorandum
outlined a comprehensive framework to
transition the country’s transport sector toward
sustainable electric mobility. Key highlights of the
document included:
• Forecasting that 5% of all registered vehicles in
Kenya be electric powered by 2025.
71
•Needs for expansion of charging networks and
the integration of renewable energy sources,
capitalizing on Kenya’s electricity grid, which
generates nearly 90% of its energy from
clean sources.
• Strategies for stakeholder engagement,
regulatory adjustments and incentives to
encourage the adoption of EVs, including
tax beneﬁts and support for local
manufacturing and assembly.
• BasiGo joined the Kenya E-Mobility Battery
Initiative and participated in workshops organized
by the Africa E-Mobility Alliance to address end-of-
life EV battery management.
• The company also proactively engaged
policymakers, hosting officials from the Ministry
of Investment, Trade and Industry at its local
assembly plant, underlining its commitment to
fostering an enabling environment for e-mobility.
Startups like BasiGo forged ahead without a 
comprehensive policy framework all-the-while 
building the infrastructure needed to showcase why 
Kenya’s EV market must have strong support from 
policymakers. The noted activities showcase the 
challenging work required to build a startup in a new 
sector of the economy. It is essential that these types 
of engagements continue to cultivate an ecosystem 
where policy and ﬁnancing align to support 
scaling EV solutions.
BasiGo Develops ESG Measurement and Monitoring Tool That All 
Kenya EV Companies Can Access
BasiGo has made signiﬁcant strides in advancing sustainability in Kenya’s e-mobility sector through 
the MOBESSA (Mobility and ESMS Solutions for Sub-Sahara Africa) Project, a collaborative initiative 
funded by P4G and implemented by BasiGo and Practical Action which aims to develop and share 
implementable guidelines on ESG and ESMS for the e-mobility sector in Sub-Saharan Africa. Ensuring 
the ESG beneﬁts and the methodology for quantifying and verifying them were key conditions for the 
startup’s investors.
During P4G’s National Platform stakeholder engagement event, which brought together key players, 
including the E-Mobility Association of Kenya (EMAK) and the National Electric Mobility Task Force, 
BasiGo presented early versions of their tools, which highlighted how companies could responsibly 
navigate current issues within the e-mobility ecosystem while fostering sustainable growth in the sector, 
including better management of environmental risks and impacts; securing fair labor practices and 
community engagement; implementing strong governance structures for sustainable operations; and 
attracting investment by demonstrating commitment to responsible business practices. 
EMAK embraced the framework and acknowledged its value, recognizing that individual EV companies 
would have found it challenging to develop such a comprehensive tool independently. As a result, EMAK 
saw an opportunity to offer these toolkits as a service to its members and is working closely with the 
MOBESSA Project as a key partner in the project implementation, seeking to enhance integration of ESG 
tools that further strengthen the industry’s capabilities.
Additionally, international partners like the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit 
expressed interest in collaborating with the P4G partnership to incorporate the toolkit into national 
regulations and policies. The organization noted the potential to integrate the framework at the national 
level, indicating strong support for the initiative.
72
STARTUP VIGNETTE 2: 
M-KOPA – RESILIENT
INNOVATION BEYOND
SILICON VALLEY
• Innovation: Battery-as-a-Service solutions for
urban electric two-wheelers.
• Enabling Environment Contribution:
• Advocating for an inclusive e-mobility tariff
which led to favorable new tariffs by Kenya
Power offering up to 22% in cost savings.
• Conducting a gender inclusivity survey
which provided key recommendations
to increase women’s participation in the
e-mobility marketplace.
• Investment Raised:  $10 million.
M-KOPA Mobility is an offshoot of M-KOPA, a
leading connected asset ﬁnancier in East Africa
focused primarily on mobile phone solutions. Since
entering the marketplace in 2022, M-KOPA Mobility
has become a major player in Kenya’s EV market.
“The work that M-KOPA has done is signiﬁcant
especially given the market’s nascency at the start
of this project,” said Emma Stephenson, head
of Transporters Portfolio at Shell Foundation, a
partner of M-KOPA during the P4G funding period.
“No player is ﬁnding it easy, especially given the
policy changes.”
M-KOPA Mobility was awarded $792,500 in grant
funding, together with $500,000 from Shell
Foundation. P4G’s ﬁnancial support helped M-KOPA
Mobility scale its technology and capacity to
distribute and ﬁnance EVs, enabling it to address
affordability barriers to e-motorbike adoption
by offering Pay-as-you-Go options that allowed
drivers to pay daily rates, which were cheaper than
ﬁnancing, fuel and maintenance costs for gas-
powered bikes. By December 2024, over 2,000
e-bikes had been deployed.
M-KOPA Mobility also conducted a gender inclusivity
survey to identify barriers for women and ways to
overcome them, including delivery services, targeted
messaging and women’s savings groups. The
company introduced a gender-intentional strategy,
realizing that including women in the business model
was not only inclusive but also proﬁtable.
M-KOPA’s journey to deploy e-motorbikes had
faced numerous supply and logistical challenges,
requiring patience, resilience and adaptability. “There
is a signiﬁcant need for patient and risk capital to
support companies like M-KOPA Mobility, which differ
from Silicon Valley investments in terms of return
timelines,” said David Damberger, managing director
M-KOPA Lends A Hand in an Inclusive E-mobility Tariff to Drive
Affordable EV Adoption
The startup also conducted multiple studies, one of which resulted in a signiﬁcant change to the 
enabling environment. This learning revealed that battery swap models suited high-density business 
markets, while battery charge models are better for low-income, fragmented markets. M-KOPA Mobility 
presented these insights to key stakeholders through e-mobility roundtables hosted by the Kenyan 
National Platform. The NP used these ﬁndings and gathered other P4G e-mobility startups to advocate 
for the aforementioned Kenya E-Mobility Tariff Review. The beauty of these tariffs is that Nairobi has 
an over-supply of renewable energy, with solar and wind facilities often taken offline when the grid’s 
demand doesn’t match their production. This results in wasted energy that could be stored if utility-scale 
energy storage, such as batteries, were more cost-effective.  
Since solar power is typically generated midday and wind power is produced at night when demand is 
low, the lack of storage capacity causes these resources to go unused. However, when EV batteries are 
charged during off-peak hours — such as at night for wind power or during peak solar hours — they can 
act as collective storage. Thus, this pricing scheme incentivizes the use of EVs by reducing unit rates for 
EV charging at those speciﬁc times of the day.
73
of M-KOPA Mobility. “Early support from providers, 
including grants from P4G and the Shell Foundation, 
has enabled innovation and testing in areas like 
electric mobility. This type of funding is essential to 
drive social impact and build sustainable business 
models that require time and patience to develop.”
The uptake of EVs in Kenya is already gaining 
momentum, bolstered by a budding startup 
ecosystem, local manufacturing initiatives and 
growing consumer awareness. However, challenges 
related to infrastructure, costs and technology 
must be addressed to ensure widespread 
adoption. Ongoing investment and robust policy 
support are critical in unlocking the full potential 
of the EV market.
STARTUP VIGNETTE 3: SUN 
RUN – ENSURING INCLUSIVE 
ACCESS IN THE ENERGY 
TRANSITION
• Innovation: Rural solar-powered EV charging and
cold storage as a service solution.
• Enabling Environment Contribution:  Reducing
the excise duty for importing EV knock
down kits by 15%.
• Investment Raised:  $43,000.
When Carol Ofafa, CEO of E-Saﬁri, was studying 
electrical engineering at the University of Glasgow, 
she wondered how e-mobility, which was gaining in 
popularity, would impact Africa. Having grown up in 
rural Kenya, she knew there would be major concerns 
and barriers to EV adoption in rural areas, so she set 
out to ensure that these communities were included 
in the clean energy transition. 
Around the same time, Chris Maara, founder of Kiri 
EV, started noticing how the transition from fossil 
fuel to e-bikes was allowing new players to enter the 
transportation market. He saw this as an opportunity 
to create jobs and bridge the gap between urban and 
rural regions in the EV transition. 
Early in their respective journeys the two startups 
joined together to create Sun Run, to more 
effectively provide e-mobility services to peri-urban 
and rural areas.
With underdeveloped road infrastructure, bringing 
e-mobility to rural Kenya would be no small feat,
and Sun Run sought to develop a solution that
would address the local communities’ unique
needs. Kiri EV used multiple rounds of testing and
rider feedback to adapt its e-bikes to meet these
needs. Key modiﬁcations included replacing plastic
components with sturdier metal, reducing reliance
on imported parts, lengthening the seat for carrying
additional passengers and strengthening the shocks
to withstand the rough, unpaved roads. These
adjustments made the bikes more durable, practical
and appealing for local communities.
To address the key affordability barriers to rural 
e-mobility adoption, Sun Run incorporated a Pay-as-
you-Go leasing model that matched the upfront cost
of gas-powered vehicles and services tailored toward
rural consumers. Importantly, the initiative included
building local capacity for vehicle maintenance,
establishing reliable and affordable solar-powered
PhoPhohhPh totto t bybyby:byy: M-M-M-M-KOPKOPPKKK PKOKOPAAAAA
74
charging stations, and enabling the dual use of 
charging infrastructure for productive purposes like 
ice block makers for ﬁshermen and cold storage.
While the venture remains small, it is working hard 
to deliver sustainable and affordable transportation 
solutions while fostering economic empowerment 
in rural communities. Sun Run currently supports 45 
riders, with women making up half — with interest 
growing daily. Two of these women use Sun Run’s 
EV and cold storage solutions to transport their 
vegetables to the marketplace more efficiently. 
This allows them to reduce their post-harvest 
loss, increasing proﬁts to meet their families’ 
ﬁnancial needs.
As part of its continued work to expand its customer 
set, Sun Run has signed a memorandum of 
understanding with the Kiumba Beach Management 
Unit and the Awuoth Widows and Orphans 
Community Based Organization to offer EV and 
cold storage solutions to ﬁsh vendors, facilitating 
efficient transport and storage, and providing more 
opportunities for local women to be business owners.
Sun Run is also fostering community trust and 
conﬁdence, by offering safety trainings and a 
dedicated roadside rescue service for female 
riders, which helps ensure the safety of its female 
customers and employees, while boosting their 
conﬁdence on the road. 
While consumer interest and clear solutions exist, 
bridging the funding gap will be critical for Sun Run 
as it approaches customers who tend to have limited 
ﬁnancial resources and do not gravitate toward 
unfamiliar products and services. Early support and 
funding from P4G have been critical for Sun Run, 
helping the startup explore rural markets, rather 
than staying conﬁned to urban centers like Nairobi. 
“P4G believed in us very early … they saw the vision 
early on … they saw what we needed to bring that 
market to us,” Maara noted. With P4G funding, Sun 
Run hosted training workshops for women’s groups, 
ﬁshermen and vendors, helping build community 
trust and equip them with the skills to operate EVs 
and leverage energy solutions. 
Additionally, due diligence assistance — an audit of 
ﬁnancial records to examine and mitigate risk from 
a business decision — was instrumental, helping 
Sun Run prepare to engage with investors. At P4G’s 
Colombia Summit in 2023 , P4G introduced Sun 
Run to investors to pitch and develop its business 
proposition and to policymakers to advocate for 
policies impacting the EV startup ecosystem.
Sun Run’s Marketplace Contribution: Improving the Tax Treatment of 
Kenya’s EV manufacturers
Sun Run met with business and policy leaders to discuss legislation that would help increase e-bike 
supply. When Kiri EV began operations, it imported complete EV knock-down kits, which would be 
assembled and sold in the market. However, this business model proved uncompetitive as these knock-
down kits were subject to a 25% excise duty tax while internal combustion engine (ICE) powered 
motorcycles were exempt.
Since there were no regulatory frameworks addressing alternative power sources, e-bikes did not 
qualify for excise duty exemptions that already applied to ICE bikes. This omission meant there was 
no standardized classiﬁcation for electric motors, leaving companies like E-Saﬁri and Kiri struggling to 
register e-bikes and clear them through customs.
With support from P4G, Sun Run, alongside other startups and interested parties, presented a 
compelling case to legislators on how the existing government policies hindered the development of the 
e-bike industry. The Kenya Association of Manufacturers, a member of the Kenya Private Sector Alliance,
also contributed by submitting a detailed policy paper on the matter. This collective effort ultimately
resulted in the updated Tax Procedures (Unassembled Motorcycles) Regulations under which companies
beneﬁt from a 15% excise duty reduction when importing knock-down EV kits, with the new tax level
set at 10%. The policy proved transformative, leading to substantial growth in the electric boda boda
industry — now numbering more than 2,000 — as more affordable motorcycles became available in
the market. Additionally, the 2023 Finance Act included an e-mobility tax exemption, creating greater
opportunities for startups to import and sell e-bikes.
75
Through P4G’s National Platform, Sun Run attended 
the Electric Mobility for Youth Employment 
Roundtable Discussion in Nairobi to discuss 
how green technology startups and e-mobility 
innovations can boost youth employment in the 
e-mobility sector and participated in national
discussions about e-mobility policy. It continues to
collaborate with the Kisumu County government to
foster county-level awareness of e-mobility beneﬁts,
including discussions with the Homa Bay County
Executive Committee Member for Trade, Tourism,
Industry and Marketing.
Sun Run showcases how accelerating the EV 
transition will require tailored solutions that address 
unique needs across disparate yet intersecting 
demographics. It highlights how, with appropriate 
outreach and consumer engagement, marginalized 
communities can be included in the clean 
energy transition. 
STARTUP VIGNETTE 4: 
FIKA MOBILITY – SCALING 
EV ADOPTION WITH A 
DECENTRALIZED APPROACH
• Innovation: Battery-as-a-Service solutions for
urban electric two-wheelers.
• Enabling Environment Contribution:
• Advocating for an inclusive e-mobility tariff,
which led to favorable new tariffs in Kenya.
• Advocating for uniform standards for
charging equipment.
• Investment Raised:  348,590 euros ($377,066).
Having been an entrepreneur for most of his life, 
Rishi Kohli, CEO and co-founder of Fika Mobility, has 
always believed collaboration is necessary to propel 
a business forward. Fika focuses on interoperable 
charging infrastructure by decentralizing charging for 
two- and three-wheel electric vehicles. Operating in 
peri-urban and rural areas on the outskirts of Nairobi, 
Fika’s business model supports charging “anywhere,” 
empowering the company to extend their services to 
the most remote locations.
Fika, a partner in the Charge Up! Partnership 
alongside ARC Ride, a leading Battery-as-a-Service 
infrastructure provider for electric two- and three-
wheelers, and the NGO Energy4Impact, was awarded 
$295,041 in grant funding by P4G to establish a 
network of charging stations in Kenya with a ﬂat 
battery swap fee for two- and three-wheel EVs.
While the initial ChargeUp! Partnership hit 
roadblocks scaling its solution, Fika was able to 
make progress in reﬁning its own business model. 
Initially focused on the business-to-business 
market, Fika enabled delivery companies and ﬂeet 
owners to operate their own swap stations. The 
company then expanded to offer proprietary swap 
stations tailored to e-motorcycle customers.  The 
innovative Battery-as-a-Service model separates 
battery ownership from the vehicle, reducing upfront 
costs for consumers.
Within the business-to-consumer market, Fika offers 
e-motorbikes with chargers and battery rentals,
enabling delivery businesses to create their own
swap stations, and boda boda riders to charge at
home or on the go. “Mom-and-pop style shops have
Fika batteries there and they receive revenue shares
from them,” said Kohli. “A peri-urban shop where
PhoPhoPhoPhoP to to toto by:by:by:by:by: SuSuSuSuSun Rn Rn Rn RRunununununnnu
76
boda boda riders congregate and they have a swap 
point there … it is quicker for Fika to do it this way … 
it allows them ﬂexibility to move batteries around.” 
Fika also launched an all-female two-wheeler 
e-motorbike group in collaboration with Little
Cab, a ride-hailing service and delivery platform,
and Carrefour, the largest supermarket chain in
Kenya, empowering more women to become
entrepreneurial riders. This effort, along with sales
of second-hand EVs to other startups like Sun Run,
underscored Fika’s role in building the ecosystem
from the ground up.
Fika did incur setbacks that could not be resolved 
through collaboration. The Charge Up! Partnership 
aimed to develop a computer-based model to 
optimize the location of battery swap stations 
for electric vehicles. However, the initiative faced 
signiﬁcant hurdles. A key challenge was obtaining 
the necessary operational data from private 
operators. Many operators were reluctant to share 
their commercial data, fearing that competitors 
might use the insights to gain an advantage without 
making similar investments in rider portfolios.
Efforts to anonymize the data did not resolve the 
issue, as commercial partners remained hesitant 
to release critical information, and complications 
arose around platform hosting and monetization. 
These market dynamics and operational 
challenges ultimately hampered the partnership’s 
ability to achieve its goals, highlighting the 
complexities of operationalizing such initiatives in 
competitive environments.
However, decentralizing charging infrastructure in 
rural and peri-urban areas is critical to accelerating 
EV adoption in Kenya. By extending reliable and 
affordable battery swap stations within and beyond 
urban centers, more communities can access the 
beneﬁts of e-mobility. This approach addresses 
key barriers such as range anxiety and charging 
accessibility while fostering economic opportunities 
in underserved areas. 
Furthermore, decentralized infrastructure empowers 
rural and peri-urban residents to embrace sustainable 
transport solutions, driving broader adoption and 
positioning Kenya as a leader in Africa’s transition to 
electric mobility.
M-KOPA advocates for
charging infrastructure to
power e-mobility growth
With support from the P4G National 
Platform, Fika facilitated joint reports that 
informed government policy, supporting 
regulatory efforts to encourage EV use. 
The comprehensive plan to advance 
e-mobility in Kenya addresses policy, ﬁscal
and infrastructure barriers to EV charging
infrastructure. The report demonstrates the
business case for:
• Implementing tax and import duty
waivers for EVs and related equipment
to make electric mobility more ﬁnancially
accessible. Such incentives are crucial
for reducing the cost barriers associated
with EV adoption.
• Establishing uniform standards for
charging equipment and ensuring
compatibility across different service
providers to facilitate seamless user
experience and interoperability within
the EV ecosystem.
During subsequent NP workshops, Fika 
engaged policymakers, including the Ministry 
of Transport and National Treasury, to drive 
e-mobility adoption. Fika also advocated
for an inclusive e-mobility tariff, alongside
M-KOPA, the NP and other e-mobility
startups. Fika’s efforts aimed to expand
e-mobility, reduce air pollution and deliver
long-term health beneﬁts for residents
in the peri-urban and rural areas on the
outskirts of Nairobi.
77
“
SCALING THE SOLUTIONS – 
TOOLS FOR ACCELERATING 
THE TRANSITION TO 
ELECTRIC MOBILITY
P4G’s approach is premised on the idea that by 
enabling and documenting the market testing 
of the earliest movers in the EV sector, we can 
enable pathways for future startups to follow. 
These startup vignettes document and illuminate 
the various pathways explored by private sector 
pioneers in Kenya and the key challenges they 
were able to overcome. Addressing critical barriers 
— such as excise tax duties, electricity pricing, 
policy frameworks and operations and maintenance 
infrastructure — demand ongoing investment, 
policy support and stakeholder collaboration. The 
journeys of these four startups serve as blueprints 
for policymakers and entrepreneurs interested in 
engaging in and scaling EV adoption. 
Across these startups, inﬂuencing policy and 
regulatory interventions required the following:
Data-led market interventions 
One of the greatest challenges in pioneering 
new technology in a nascent marketplace is that 
the pathways are neither well deﬁned nor well 
known. For decades, businesses have grappled 
with the known knowns, the known unknowns 
and the unknown unknowns, and these startups 
face all three. Having a knowledge base on what is 
required to enact marketplace change is crucial for 
informed decision-making. However, that knowledge 
base is absent when a marketplace, service or 
product is new. 
By helping startups collect and analyze data, 
including regulatory and policy barriers, P4G has 
empowered these startups to have an effective 
dialogue with policymakers. This has led to more 
productive and targeted interventions tailored to 
Kenya’s unique transportation needs. This includes 
identifying gaps in charging infrastructure, supply 
chains and ﬁnancing models that are necessary to 
support EV uptake in both urban and rural contexts.
P4G’s Kenya National Platform, co-chaired by 
Kenya’s National Treasury and the Kenya Private 
Sector Alliance, has played a pivotal role in sharing 
guidance, insights and data to provide a holistic 
view of the progress and gaps.  The NP leveraged 
real world insights and data from the startup 
partnerships to draft and submit country-speciﬁc 
reports and recommendations, such as the Charge 
Up! Kenya Charging Forward Policy Assessment,
whose recommendations contributed to the 
preferential e-mobility tariff by Kenya Power with 
up to 22% in cost savings as outlined in the Kenya 
E-Mobility Tariff Review.
Data-informed interventions are key to accelerating 
Kenya’s strategic goals for EV adoption. As the 
market grows, knowledge sharing is instrumental 
as it provides clarity to policymakers and investors 
about the industry’s priorities, paving the way for 
coordinated action.
The National Platform is catalytic in nature. P4G seeks to make strategic 
interventions at critical moments, organizing key stakeholders to discuss 
current industry challenges and inspire systemic changes that would propel the 
sector forward.
–Augustine Kenduiwo, deputy director of the Climate Change Directorate
for Kenya’s Ministry of Environment, Climate Change, and Forestry. 
78
Convening stakeholders and 
fostering buy-in for stronger 
e-mobility policies
The buy-in of key public and private stakeholders 
is another indispensable component of a successful 
climate startup. Policy and regulatory frameworks 
heavily inﬂuence the pace of e-mobility market 
growth. Securing support from policymakers ensures 
that critical incentives — such as tax regulations 
and operations and maintenance infrastructure 
development — are implemented effectively. 
To ensure that policy is responsive to current 
market challenges, it is essential to bring together 
stakeholders from the public sector, including 
regulatory, bureaucratic and institutional bodies, as 
well as the leading private sector stakeholders within 
that sector. P4G has worked as a convener to foster 
meaningful dialogue and collaboration among these 
groups. In February 2023, the National Platform 
hosted a series of e-mobility roundtables, held by the 
Danish Embassy in Kenya, a P4G funder. During these 
events, P4G’s partnerships showcased innovations 
and facilitated discussions on the sector’s progress. 
M-KOPA presented a policy analysis highlighting
e-mobility regulations and practices from other
countries and introduced its gender inclusivity
paper. Representatives from the African Guarantee
Fund and the Ministry of Transport alongside other
stakeholders fostered a rich exchange of ideas
and perspectives, discussing signiﬁcant market
barriers and emphasizing the need for reforms to
accelerate innovation and adoption. Following these
discussions, Kenya established its National Task
Force on E-Mobility, marking a major step forward.
P4G contributed to its formation and is represented
through the Ministry of Environment, Climate Change
and Forestry and the National Treasury and Planning.
Additionally, WRI, which hosts P4G, convened a 
group of experts including the Kenyan government 
and other stakeholders to design, write and submit 
a mitigation action facility (MAF) proposal. The 
MAF committed 25 million euros ($27 million) to 
accelerate the market development of e-mobility 
in Kenya. The proposal included the real-world 
experiences and recommendations of P4G’s startups 
to illustrate the vital technical support, policy 
interventions and ﬁnancing required for climate 
change mitigation projects.
These sector roundtables were invaluable for 
fostering collaboration and showcasing real-life 
cases, demonstrating the potential impact of EVs in 
different contexts. Advancing this approach will help 
build momentum and conﬁdence in the transition 
to EVs, while also identifying areas for further 
innovation and investment.
Coalition Building
Identifying and enabling champions is a proven 
strategy for driving systemic change. Champions 
— whether they are government officials, 
business leaders or community members — can 
act as advocates for and drivers of EV adoption, 
demonstrating its feasibility and beneﬁts. These 
individuals and organizations can provide tangible 
proof points that inspire others to join the e-mobility 
transition. They can also serve as catalysts for other 
startups entering the market.
For example, Sun Run leveraged word-of-mouth 
marketing, hired female agents for awareness 
campaigns and showcased its products at local trade 
shows, such as the Lake Region Motor Show Kisumu, 
to increase interest. This, coupled with the increase 
in national media and marketing coverage of EVs, led 
to awareness and interest growing signiﬁcantly, with 
public engagement. As a result, Sun Run products 
increased from 18% to 39% between 2022 and 2024 
in the local areas Sun Run services. Moreover, Fika 
sold second-hand EVs to other startups like Sun 
Run, building the ecosystem from the ground up and 
allowing other businesses to jumpstart their own 
journey into the clean energy transition. 
Finally, the National Platform served as a reputable 
champion in mobilizing government stakeholders 
and associations because it had direct access to 
real-world insights from P4G’s e-mobility startups, 
enabling it to advocate for policies and partnerships 
grounded in practical, on-the-ground experiences. 
Fostering an environment for trusted individuals and 
institutions to act as EV champions is a strategic 
avenue that can enable localized solutions that 
resonate with communities.
79
Financing
Developing innovative ﬁnancing models, such as 
leasing arrangements, Pay-as-you-Drive, Pay-as-
you-Go, Battery-as-a-Service, solar charging and 
cold storage as a service, can alleviate ﬁnancial 
burdens and make EVs more accessible. All of P4G’s 
e-mobility startup partnerships have implemented
some version of these leasing programs, and
they have found success in reducing the ﬁnancial
barrier to entry.
In 2023, Roam, a Swedish EV and solar energy 
company, selected M-KOPA to be one of its major 
ﬁnancing partners  for customers who wish to buy 
e-motorbikes, highlighting not only the model’s
effectiveness but also the growing interest of foreign
investors to engage in this nascent market.
By leveraging these tools effectively, Kenya 
can create a robust ecosystem that accelerates 
EV adoption and supports its broader goals of 
sustainable development and climate resilience.
CONCLUSION: DRIVING THE 
EV TRANSITION IN KENYA
The growing adoption of EVs in Kenya demonstrates 
the potential of sustainable transportation to 
address pressing environmental, economic and social 
challenges. The transition is both a challenge and an 
opportunity. Efforts to raise consumer awareness, 
implement supportive policies and develop 
infrastructure are already bearing fruit. However, 
sustained progress requires concerted action. 
Each effort must seamlessly integrate into Kenya’s 
existing EV ecosystem, enhancing collaboration and 
creating synergies that allow for scalable solutions 
and an enabling environment to rapidly accelerate 
the adoption and growth of electric vehicles 
across the country. 
Strong government policies, such as tax incentives 
and supportive legislation; innovative platforms and 
ﬁnancing mechanisms like P4G, MAF and others 
that provide grants and technical assistance; and 
public-private partnerships are paving the way for an 
equitable and inclusive EV transition.
Kenya’s experience serves as a model for other 
emerging economies looking to adopt clean 
transportation solutions while fostering sustainable 
development. By staying committed to innovation 
and inclusivity, Kenya can solidify its position as a 
leader in Africa’s green mobility revolution.
PPPhoP to bybybyby:b  CharggggeUUUpU ! Partrttrtneeere ship
80